1 INTRODUCTION  
 
MSCI calculates a wide variety of indexes all of which are governed by rules -based 
methodologies.  MSCI also calculates custom indexes at clients' request. These are 
constructed and maintained based on MSCI indexes to which a client -defined screen, 
exclusion list or weighting is applied. Custom indexes may be governed by either standard 
methodologies w ith modified parameters or specific custom methodologies.   
The c onstruction and maintenance of each MSCI index can be  fully  described by a set of 
methodology documents  as well as custom parameter sheets in the case of custom indexes.  
The number of methodol ogies describing an index may vary depending on its complexity.  
This document provides detailed guidance on how and in which order they should be read in 
order to facilitate  understanding  the full set of rules governing the index.  
 
 
 
 
 
2 METHODOLOGY  DOCUMENT SET: OVERVIEW  
The methodology document set is a collection of documents that describes the complete set 
of construction and maintenance rules of any MSCI  Index .  
It includes  
* Common global document set  - This includes documents common to all index es, 
such as index policies, index calculation or treatment of corporate events.  
* Specific Index methodology set  - This includes the index specific rules  and 
guidelines  and may consist of one or more index methodology documents and a 
parameter sheet in the c ase of specific c ustom indexes.  
An MSCI I ndex may be constructed by the application of  a single  specific  methodology such 
as the  MSCI Global Investable Markets Indexes (GIMI) methodology or through the 
application of two or more  specific  methodologies and  thus may require referencing to 
multiple methodology books for  a complete description.   
MSCI's primary standard equity index methodology is the MSCI Global Investable Market 
Index ("GIMI") methodology. Other equity indexes, including some custom indexes, are in 
general derived and maintained by applying other , e.g. factor /ESG /thematic/capped  
methodologies, on the universe of securities defined by the MSCI Global Investable Market 
Indexes  (generally referred to as "Parent Index") . 
 
  
Figure  1: MSCI Index Offerings  
 
For example the MSCI World Quality Index is created by applying MSCI Quality Index 
methodology on the MSCI World Index (Parent Index) which is based on the MSCI Global 
Investable Market Indexes  methodology .  
Some indexes may be constructed by applying more than two layers of methodologies 
applied sequentially. For example -  the MSCI World  Commodity Producers Sector Capped  
Index is created by first creating the MSCI World Index using the MSCI GIMI Methodology, 
then creating the MSCI World Commodity Producers Index by applying the MSCI Commodity 
Produces Index methodology on the MSCI World , and finally the MSCI World Commodity 
Producers Sector Capped Index is created by appl ying the MSCI Capped Index methodology 
on the MSCI World Commodity Producers Index.  
Thus, the MSCI World Quality Index can be described by two layers of index methodologies  
(GIMI and Quality) , while the MSCI World  Commodity Prod ucers Sector Capped Index c an be 
described by three layers of index methodologies (GIMI, Commodity Producers and Capped) . 
In some cases, indexes are created by first creating component indexes by separately 
applying different index methodologies on the same Parent  Index and then combining these  
component indexes  in a specified proportion  to create the final index .  
For instance, the MSCI World Factor Mix A -Series Index is created as an equal weighted 
combination of the three indexes -  the MSCI World Minimum Volatility Index, MSCI World 
Value Weighted Index  and the MSCI World Quality  Index . In such cases, the methodology 
document set will include the GIMI methodology in the first layer, all the three component 
methodologies in the second layer, and the MSCI Factor Mix A -Series metho dology is 
included in the final layer.  
Appendix  1 has a more detailed depiction of the methodology document set structure for an 
index with multiple index methodology layers.  
2.1 COMMON GLOBAL DOCUME NT SET  
The g lobal common document set includes the set of d ocuments described below which 
govern the most basic definitions, calculations, processes and policies applicable to all of 
MSCI's indexes.  As described earlier, these methodology documents are included by default 
in all the methodology document sets  unles s otherwise stated in the specific index 
methodology (see section 2. 2).  
2.1.1 MSCI INDEX POLICIES  
This document describes  the various govern ance  policies related to the construction, 
maintenance and termination of the MSCI index es. 
2.1.2 MSCI INDEX CALCULATI ON METHODOLOGY  
This document describes MSCI's general Index calculation methodology for the MSCI 
Indexes.  
2.1.3 MSCI  CORPORATE EVENTS MET HODOLOGY  
This document describes the guiding principles and methodology for implementation o f 
corporate events in the MSCI index es. 
2.1.4 MSCI  FUNDAMENTAL DATA MET HODOLOGY  
This document describes the fundamental data and financial ratios used in the construction 
of various MSCI i ndexes.  
2.2 SPECIFIC INDEX METHO DOLOGY DOCUMENTS  
In addition to the global common document set described above, e ach index is  described by 
a set of rules described in the relevant methodology book.  As described earlier, multiple 
books may be needed to fully describe the index methodology.  
In cases where the standard  methodology parameters are altered based on client requests, 
a parameter sheet  is included to detail the specific customization of the methodology 
relative to the standard parameters.  
3 METHODOLOGY DOCUMENT  SET: TECHNICAL DESCRIPTION  
The documents included  in the methodology document set correspond to the versions of 
the documents active on the date of retrieving the set.  
The whole set may be divided into 3 categories as below:  
INFORMATION DOCUMENT - Description of Methodologies Set  (marked by prefix 0_) : This 
current document  
(0_INFORMATION_ DOCUMENT _Description_ of_Methodologies_ Set_YYYYMMDD ) 
Global Common Document Set (marked by prefix 0_) : As described in Section 2.1 , these are 
included by default in all the methodology document sets.  
These include:  
* 0_MSCI _Equity_ Index _Polic ies_YYYYMMDD  
* 0_MSCI_ Fund amental _Data _Methodology _YYYYMMDD  
* 0_MSCI_ Index _Calculation_Methoodology _YYYYMMDD  
* 0_MSCI_ Corporate_ Events_Methodology _YYYYMMDD  
* 0_MSCI_Index_Glossary_of_Terms _YYYYMMDD  
Specific index m ethodology documents : Thes e are marked by prefix 1_, a nd if necessary 2_ 
and so on . 
The methodology document set inherently describe s the order of application of the 
individual index methodologies to construct the given index. If an index is constructed by 
applying multiple methodo logies  sequentially on top of one another , they are presented in 
the appropriate order. The following are examples of how this is applied. For the indexes 
described in Section 2, the methodology document set will appear as described below:  
* For the MSCI Wor ld Quality Index , the methodolo gy document set will include  
(along with the 6 documents listed above)  the MSCI GIMI  methodology in the first 
layer and the MSCI Quality Index methodology in the second layer as 
1_MSCI _Global_ Investable _Market _Indexes _Methodology _YYYYMMDD  and 
2_MSCI _Quality _Indexes _Methodology _YYYYMMDD .  
* For the MSCI World  Commodity Producers Sector Capped Index, the methodology 
document set will include the MSCI GIMI Methodology in the first layer, the MSCI 
Commodity Producers Index me thodology in the second layer, and the MSCI 
Capped Index methodology in the third layer, as 
1_MSCI _Global_ Investable _Market _Indexes _Methodology _YYYYMMDD , 
2_MSCI_ Commodity _Producers _Indexes_Methodology _YYYYMMDD  and 
3_MSCI _Capped _Indexes _Methodology _YYYYMMDD .  
* For the MSCI World Factor Mix A -Series Index , the methodology document set will 
include the MSCI GIMI Methodology in the first layer, the MSCI Minimum Volatility 
Index methodology, the MSCI Value Weighted Index methodology and the MSCI 
Quality Index methodology all in the second layer and the MSCI Factor Mix A -Series 
Index methodology in the third layer as 
1_MSCI _Global_ Investable _Market _Indexes _Methodology _YYYYMMDD , 
2_MSCI _Quality_ indexes _Methodology _YYYYMMDD , 
2_MSCI _Minimum _Volatility _Indexes _Method ology _YYYYMMDD , 
2_MSCI _Value _Weighted _indexes _Methodology _YYYYMMDD  and 
3_MSCI _Factor _Mix_A-Series _Indexes _Methodology _YYYYMMDD . 
For custom indexes created by altering the standard methodology parameters based on 
client requests, the methodology document se t will also include a parameter sheet to 
detail the specific customization of the methodology relative to the standard 
parameters.  
APPENDIX I : METHODOLOGY DOCUMENT SET STRUCTURE  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Base Index Methodology -  Layer 1 (e.g. GIMI)  
 
Optional Specific Index Methodologies -  Layer 2  
Methodology 1  
e.g. 
Min Vol  
Methodology N  
e.g. 
Quality  
Optional Specific Index Methodologies -  Layer 3  
 
Methodology 1  
e.g. 
ESG Leaders  
Methodology N  
e.g. 
Enhanced Value  
Optional Specific  Index Methodologies -  Layer N  
 
Optional 
Parameter Sheet  
 
... 
... 
... 
... 
... 
... 
Common Global Document Set >>  
Index Policy  
Index Calculation  
Fundamental Data  
Corporate Events  
Index Glossary of Terms  
... 
... 
... 
... 
... 
... 
... 
... 
... 
 (c) 2017  MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
 * This document and all of the information contained in it, including 
without limitation all text, data, graphs, charts (collectively, the 
"Information") is the property of MSCI Inc. or its subsidiaries (collectively, 
"MSCI"), or MSCI's licensors, direct o r indirect suppliers or any third party 
involved in making or compiling any Information (collectively, with MSCI, 
the "Information Providers") and is provided for informational purposes 
only.  The Information may not be modified, reverse -engineered, 
reprod uced or redisseminated in whole or in part without prior written 
permission from MSCI.  
* The Information may not be used to create derivative works or to verify 
or correct other data or information.   For example (but without 
limitation), the Information may not be used to create indexes, 
databases, risk models, analytics, software, or in connection with the 
issuing, offering, sponsoring, managing or marketing of any securities, 
portfolios, financial products or other investment vehicles utilizing or 
based  on, linked to, tracking or otherwise derived from the Information 
or any other MSCI data, information, products or services.   
* The user of the Information assumes the entire risk of any use it may 
make or permit to be made of the Information.  NONE OF T HE 
INFORMATION PROVIDERS MAKES ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED 
WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS WITH RESPECT TO THE 
INFORMATION (OR THE RESULTS TO BE OBTAINED BY THE USE THEREOF), 
AND TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, EACH 
INFORMATION PROVIDER EXPRESS LY DISCLAIMS ALL IMPLIED 
WARRANTIES (INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY IMPLIED 
WARRANTIES OF ORIGINALITY, ACCURACY, TIMELINESS, NON -
INFRINGEMENT, COMPLETENESS, MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A 
PARTICULAR PURPOSE) WITH RESPECT TO ANY OF THE INFORMATION.  
* Without limiting any of the foregoing and to the maximum extent 
permitted by applicable law, in no event shall any Information Provider 
have any liability regarding any of the Information for any direct, indirect, 
special, punitive, consequential (includi ng lost profits) or any other 
damages even if notified of the possibility of such damages. The 
foregoing shall not exclude or limit any liability that may not by applicable 
law be excluded or limited, including without limitation (as applicable), 
any liabi lity for death or personal injury to the extent that such injury 
results from the negligence or willful default of itself, its servants, agents 
or sub -contractors.   
* Information containing any historical information, data or analysis 
should not be taken as an indication or guarantee of any future 
performance, analysis, forecast or prediction.  Past performance does not 
guarantee future results.   
* The Information should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the 
skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, 
advisors and/or clients when making investment and other business 
decisions.  All Information is impersonal and not tailored to the needs of 
any person, entity or group of persons.  
* None of the Information constitutes an offer to sell (or a solicitation of 
an offer to buy), any security, financial product or other investment 
vehicle or any trading strategy.  
* It is not possible to invest directly in an index.  Exposure to an asset 
class or trading strategy or other categ ory represented by an index is only 
available through third party investable instruments (if any) based on 
that index.   MSCI does not issue, sponsor, endorse, market, offer, review 
or otherwise express any opinion regarding any fund, ETF, derivative or 
other security, investment, financial product or trading strategy that is 
based on, linked to or seeks to provide an investment return related to 
the performance of any MSCI index (collectively, "Index Linked 
Investments"). MSCI makes no assurance that any I ndex Linked 
Investments will accurately track index performance or provide positive 
investment returns.  MSCI Inc. is not an investment adviser or fiduciary 
and MSCI makes no representation regarding the advisability of investing 
in any Index Linked Invest ments.  * Index returns do not represent the results of actual trading of investible 
assets/securities. MSCI maintains and calculates indexes, but does not 
manage actual assets. Index returns do not reflect payment of any sales 
charges or fees an investor m ay pay to purchase the securities underlying 
the index or Index Linked Investments. The imposition of these fees and 
charges would cause the performance of an Index Linked Investment to 
be different than the MSCI index performance.  
* The Information may co ntain back tested data.  Back- tested 
performance is not actual performance, but is hypothetical.  There are 
frequently material differences between back tested performance results 
and actual results subsequently achieved by any investment strategy.   
* Con stituents of MSCI equity indexes are listed companies, which are 
included in or excluded from the indexes according to the application of 
the relevant index methodologies. Accordingly, constituents in MSCI 
equity indexes may include MSCI Inc., clients of M SCI or suppliers to 
MSCI.  Inclusion of a security within an MSCI index is not a 
recommendation by MSCI to buy, sell, or hold such security, nor is it 
considered to be investment advice.  
* Data and information produced by various affiliates of MSCI Inc., 
including MSCI ESG Research LLC and Barra LLC, may be used in 
calculating certain MSCI indexes.  More information can be found in the 
relevant index methodologies on www.msci.com.  
* MSCI receives compensation in connection with licensing its indexes to 
third parties.  MSCI Inc.'s revenue includes fees based on assets in Index 
Linked Investments. Information can be found in MSCI Inc.'s company 
filings on the Investor Relations section of www.msci.com.  
* MSCI ESG Research LLC is a Registered Investment Adviser under the 
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and a subsidiary of MSCI Inc.  Except 
with respect to any applicable products or services from MSCI ESG 
Research, neither MSCI nor any of its products or services recommends, 
endorses, approves or otherwise expresses any opinion regarding any 
issuer, securities, financial products or instruments or trading strategies 
and MSCI's products or services are not intended to constitute 
investment advice or a recommendation to make (or refrain from 
making) any kind of inv estment decision and may not be relied on as 
such. Issuers mentioned or included in any MSCI ESG Research materials 
may include MSCI Inc., clients of MSCI or suppliers to MSCI, and may also 
purchase research or other products or services from MSCI ESG Rese arch.  
MSCI ESG Research materials, including materials utilized in any MSCI 
ESG Indexes or other products, have not been submitted to, nor received 
approval from, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission or 
any other regulatory body.  
* Any use  of or access to products, services or information of MSCI 
requires a license from MSCI.  MSCI, Barra, RiskMetrics, IPD, FEA, 
InvestorForce, and other MSCI brands and product names are the 
trademarks, service marks, or registered trademarks of MSCI or its 
subsidiaries in the United States and other jurisdictions.  The Global 
Industry Classification Standard (GICS) was developed by and is the 
exclusive property of MSCI and Standard & Poor's.  "Global Industry 
Classification Standard (GICS)" is a service mark  of MSCI and Standard & 
Poor's.  
 NOTICE AND 
DISCLAIMER  