 1 Introduction  
This methodology book provides a description of the rules and guidelines followed by MSCI for the 
treatment of corporate events within the MSCI Global Investable Market Indexes  ("GIMI ").  It also 
provides guidance for the treatment of corporate events within MSCI Capped Weighted and Non -
Market Capitalization Weighted indexes.  
The treatment of corporate events may vary across the categorization of indexes defined as MSCI 
GIMI , Capped Weighted or Non -Market Capitalization Weighted Indexes. Capped Weighted indexes 
include those indexes that are designed to provide an alternative to purely free float -adjusted market 
capitalization weighting by constraining maximum sector, geograp hical or constituent weights. In 
addition, the categorization also includes those indexes that are specifically intended for funds 
subject to regulatory con straints on maximum weights (i.e., 10/40, 25/50).  Non -Market 
Capitalization Weighted Indexes include those indexes that are designed to provide an alternative 
weighting construct through the use of optimization, thematic or strategic tilting, or equal wei ghting 
that create index constituent weighting divergent from pure free float -adjusted market capitalization.  
Additionally, for "composite" indexes, which are a combination of different MSCI component 
indexes, the impact of corporate events is driven by the event treatment in the MSCI component 
index, of which the security is a constituent.  
In exceptional circumstances, this guidance may vary with regards to specific corporate event 
treatment in certain MSCI Indexes.  Such variance will be appropriately noted in respective index 
methodologies.  
Any exceptions to these rules are reviewed and approved by the MSCI Equity Index Committee and 
are publicly announced in advance of the implementation.  
This methodology book focuses on the implementation of corporate events affecting securities 
across all the MSCI Equity Indexes and products. While each MSCI Index has its own separate index 
construction and maintenance methodology, MSCI endeavors to devel op and maintain a set of 
corporate event implementation rules that are as generic as possible and that can apply to any 
equity security included in the MSCI universe.  Unless otherwise stated, the policies and guidelines 
apply therefore to all securities i n the MSCI universe. MSCI strives to maintain all companies and 
securities in its Equity Indexes and products with the objective of reflecting, on a timely basis, the 
evolution of the underlying equity markets. In maintaining the MSCI Equity Indexes, MSCI adheres to 
the guiding principles set forth in the MSCI Equity Indexes Methodology Books, including the 
consistent application of its methodology over time, across regions, and for developed, emerging 
and frontier markets alike. Of particular relevance in the design and maintenance of MSCI's 
Corporate Events Methodology are the principles of replicability, consistency, continuity and 
minimizing turnover. These principles imply that the perspective of portfolios replicating the various 
indexes must systemati cally be taken into account in the implementation of each corporate event. In 
particular the consistency of approach should ensure that similar events should as much as 
possible be given the same treatment and hence facilitate predictability of changes. Al so, no 
unnecessary turnover should result from the implementation of corporate events. Obviously, some 
corporate events are very complex with many considerations coming into play, and there is a fine 
balance to be found between potentially conflicting impl ications of the various objectives, for 
example, when the complete information is not available until after the event, or when the event 
involves companies trading in different time zones. In order to provide transparency and 
 predictability to the marketplace in all cases, MSCI not only publishes general maintenance policies 
and detailed guidelines for the implementation of corporate events, but has also instituted a policy 
of announcing all changes to its Equity Indexes result ing from all corporate events in advance of 
implementing such changes.  
When a corporate event affects securities from different size segments, countries or regions leading 
to several possible implementations, MSCI adopts the most global point of view to implement the 
event, provided that at least one security involved in the event is a constituent of the MSCI Indexes. 
For example, in the case of a cross -border merger, MSCI uses the perspective minimizing the 
turnover of the MSCI ACWI for the event implementation decision. Similarly, in the case of an 
acquisition between differ ent size segments, MSCI generally adopts an Investable Market Indexes 
(IMI) perspective.  
MSCI reserves the right to use a different approach when appropriate. Any implementation decisions 
related to such cases are announced to clients prior to the change becoming effective in the MSCI 
Equity Indexes.  
Changes resulting from corporate events involve many aspects, including additions, deletions, 
changes in number of shares (NOS), changes in industry classification, and changes in Foreign 
Inclusion Factors (FIFs) and/or Domestic Inclusion Factors (DIFs) as  a result of updated free float 
estimates. As a general policy, changes resulting from corporate events are implemented in the 
MSCI Equity Indexes as they occur simultaneously with the event. In addition, changes in number of 
shares are consistently coordi nated with changes in FIFs and/or DIFs to accurately reflect the 
investability of the underlying securities. Changes resulting from corporate events that could not be 
implemented on or near the effective dates, and where no Price Adjustment Factor (PAF) is  
necessary, are implemented at the following regularly scheduled index review (" Index Review "). 
Examples of such corporate events include private placements and secondary offerings.  
As outlined in the MSCI Index Calculation Methodology , the MSCI Equity Indexes are calculated 
using the Laspeyres' concept of a weighted arithmetic average together with the concept of chain -
linking.  
For certain corporate events, MSCI applies a PAF at the security level in order to neutralize (at least 
partially) the price movement due to the event and keep only the price performance in the index due 
to real market movement. This is done (as per the La speyres' concept) to enable comparison with 
the previous day's price. Consequently, for such events, changes in number of shares and FIF, if any, 
are reflected one day after the PAF is applied.  
* Overall, the corporate events methodology can be described in four broad categories:  
* Mergers and Acquisitions (M&As) and Spin -offs 
* Corporate Actions  
* Other Events Resulting in Changes in Number of Shares and FIFs and/or DIFs  
* Suspensions, Delistings and Bankruptcies  
 
Certain specific aspects of MSCI's Corporate Events Methodology are treated in appendices at the 
end of this Methodology Book. The policies and guidelines set forth apply in most corporate events 
cases. For corporate events not described in this Methodology Book or combinations of different 
types of corporate events and other exceptional cases, MSCI reserves the right to determine the 
most appropriate implementation method and anno unces it prior to the changes becoming effective 
in the MSCI Equity Indexes.  
 Throughout this document, when there is a country specific treatment, MSCI refers to the country of 
listing of the concerned securities , unless stated otherwise . In addition,  MSCI may extend the 
existing country specifics to other  countries that present  similar ities in the way the corporate events 
are implemented.   
In addition, in this document the following abbreviations apply:  
Abbreviation  Definition  
FIF Foreign Inclusion Factor  
DIF Domestic Inclusion Factor  
NOS  Number Of Shares  
PAF Price Adjustment Factor  
 
For other terms, definitions and abbreviations, see Appendix I, entitled "PAF Formulas and 
Definitions" and Appendix II, entitled "Implementation Dates for Corporate Events".  
 2 Mergers & Acquisitions (M&As)  
Mergers and acquisitions are the combination of two or more companies achieved through a mutual 
agreement or through a tender offer. They can be structured in a wide variety of ways with unique 
characteristics and complexities. In a merger, the merging ent ities cease to exist and a new entity is 
created, while in an acquisition, the acquirer takes over the controlling interest in the acquired 
company. In the large majority of cases, the target subsequently ceases to exist as an independent 
entity.  
For M&As involving share consideration (cash and share or share only), the changes in NOS and /or 
FIF of the acquirer are implemented simultaneously with the deletion or FIF change of the target. 
MSCI implements pending number of shares and/or free float updates simultaneously with the 
event. Note that if the number of shares update is smaller than + -1% on a post -event number of 
shares basis, it will be implemented at a subsequent Index Review.  In addition, a size  segment  
review may be performed for the acqu irer security. For more information on size segment reviews, 
please refer to section 3.2.3.2 of the MSCI GIMI methodology.  
Target securities are generally deleted from MSCI Indexes with at least two business days advance 
notification  which , in some cases,  may result in MSCI  delay ing the implementation beyond the last 
trading day of  the security . Shorter advance notification may be provided in cases where delaying 
the implementation would result in replicability issues.  
M&As that encompass a suspension period prior to the listing of the post -event entity are 
implemented as of the close of the last trading day using market prices and prior to the suspension 
of the merging entities. During the suspension period, the merged entity is maintained with a 
calculated price based on the market price of one of the merging entities and the terms of the 
transaction.  
Cross -border transactions  involving companies trading in different countries for which necessary 
information (such as confirmation of the date of completion, last regulatory approvals, etc.) is 
lacking prior to the event's completion,  or for which  the implementations  can lead to delay in product 
delivery, may  be implemented as of the close of the first trading day of the post -event entity. In these 
cases, MSCI uses a calculated price for the acquired or merging entities, based on the terms of the 
transactio n, the price of the acquiring or merged entity and the foreign exchange rates, if applicable. 
When this is not possible, MSCI carries forward the market price for the acquired or merging entities 
for one additional business day.  
 
2.1 Merger and acquisitions via mutual agreement  
2.1.1  Implementation timing  
MSCI implements mergers and acquisitions executed via mutual agreement as of the close of the 
last trading day of the acquired entity or the merged entities. This occurs whether the securities 
involved in the event are index constituents or non -index const ituents and under the assumption that 
all necessary information is available prior to the completion of the event and provided the liquidity 
of the relevant constituent(s) is not expected to be significantly reduced on the day of 
implementation. For M&As, where the completion of the deal is conditional upon the resolution of 
 pending shareholders' legal action, MSCI waits until no legal action is pending before confirming the 
deletion of the target company. For acquisitions via scheme of arrangement (outside the US and 
Canada), MSCI waits for approval from shareholders at the scheme meeting before announcing in 
"confirmed" status the deletion of the target security. However, MSCI does not wait for the results of 
the court meeting if the scheme is already approved at the scheme meeting by shareholders.  
If a previously announced merger or acquisition that resulted in a security deletion from an index is 
subsequently cancelled, the deleted security is not immediately reinstated in the index. The security 
will be reconsidered for index inclusion at the next regularly scheduled Index Review.  
2.1.2  Implementation  price  
Target securities are deleted from the MSCI Indexes at their closing market prices. When a target 
security in an acquisition has ceased trading prior to its deletion in the MSCI Indexes, it is maintained 
and subsequently deleted at a price that reflects th e terms of the relevant deal. The terms for 
acquisitions that involve shares or a combination of cash and shares as consideration, are 
calculated based on the terms of the acquisition and the market price of the acquirer.  
For M&As involving share consideration (cash and share or share only), changes for the acquirer , if 
any, are implemented using closing market prices.  
2.1.3  Announcement policy  
For acquisitions executed via mutual agreement, MSCI sends an announcement with an 
"Undetermined" status with sufficient advance notification. An "Expected" announcement is sent 
with ten full business days of advance notification. A "Confirmed" announcemen t is sent at least two 
full business days before the effective date of the implementation.  
In a situation where new information is made publicly available and captured by MSCI after the 
"Confirmed" announcement has been sent, and this information would change the outcome and/or 
the likelihood of the acquisition to occur, MSCI may proceed with th e implementation as was 
announced as part of the "Confirmed" notification. This is notably relevant in the situation where a 
reversal of announced implementation would be provided with too short a notification period to 
clients.  
MSCI also sends an announcement in "Acknowledged " status within five business days following 
the public announcement by the company of the acquisition, if the impact is above one time the 
constituent 's underlying country index Large Cap Cutoff.  
2.1.4  Country Specifics  
For the following countries, MSCI takes into account the market specifics described below to 
implement merger and acquisitions  via mutual agreement  in the MSCI Indexes:  
* United States  
* Canada  
* United Kingdom  
 
 2.1.4.1  US specific treatment  
For US acquisitions (where the target has an MSCI country of classification of the USA), executed via 
mutual agreement and where only a shareholders' meeting approval is pending for deal completion, 
the resulting changes will be implemented in the MSCI Ind exes as of the close of the last trading day 
(if publicly available) or as of the close of the shareholders' meeting date if the last trading day is not 
publicly available. Two full business days advance notification will be given for implementation.  
For US acquisitions executed via mutual agreement, and where other regulatory approvals are still 
pending for deal completion, event implementation will occur with two full business days advance 
notification either:  
* when the transaction is deemed unconditional based on the factors noted below  
* or, if it is uncertain, when there is an official announcement pertaining to the completion of 
the transaction or to the delisting of the target security.  
 
In cases where the delisting notification is published late (for example, during the last trading day), 
MSCI delays the event implementation and keep s the target security in the index for one additional 
day or more in order to give clients sufficient advance notification.  
The main factors (not in order of importance) MSCI considers when determining whether a 
transaction can be deemed unconditional are:  
* the required level of acceptance at a general shareholders meeting  
* the major shareholders' stated intention whether to vote in favor of the transaction  
* the existence of pending regulatory approvals and legal actions  
* expected delisting date  
* the market perception of the transaction  
* additional conditions for the offer to be completed  
* pending legal and/or financing conditions  
 
For US Acquisitions executed via agreement, MSCI sends an announcement with an "Undetermined" 
status with sufficient advance notification. A "Confirmed" announcement is sent at least two full 
business days before the effective date of the implementation.  
2.1.4.2  Canada specific treatment  
MSCI implements Canadian acquisitions (where the target has an MSCI country of classification of 
Canada), executed via mutual agreement, as of the close of the expected completion date publicly 
announced by the company. When the expected completion date is  not made publicly available, 
MSCI waits for the acquisition to be announced as completed to implement the event with two full 
business days advance notification.  
2.1.4.3  United Kingdom specific treatment  
For UK acquisitions executed via mutual agreement where the target security moves to SETSqx 
trading service from SETS trading service before its last trading day on the London Stock Exchange, 
MSCI deletes such security from the MSCI Indexes as of the close  of its last trading day on SETS 
trading service with two full business days advance notification.  
 2.2 Tender offers  
2.2.1  Definition  
Tender offers are offers to buy shares of a company, in many cases at a premium above the shares' 
market price for cash and/or stock, with the objective of taking control of the acquired company.  
A tender offer may be a result of friendly negotiations or may be unsolicited and possibly hostile.  
When an acquirer offers cash to acquire a target company in a tender offer there is no change made 
to the acquirer.  
2.2.2  Factors considered to assess the likelihood of tender offer success  
The main factors considered by MSCI when assessing the outcome of a tender offer (not in order of 
importance) are:  
* the announcement of the offer as friendly or hostile  
* a comparison of the offer price to the acquired security's market price  
* the recommendation by the acquired company's board of directors  
* the major shareholders' stated intention whether to tender their shares  
* the required level of acceptance of shares tendered  
* the existence of pending regulatory approvals and/or legal actions  
* the market perception of the transaction, official preliminary results if any, and other 
additional conditions for the offer.  
2.2.3  Implementation timing  
For friendly tender offers where the offer is likely to be successful based on the factors listed in 
section 2.2.2  and / or if the FIF of the security is likely to decrease below 0.15 the security is deleted 
at the end of the initial offer period (this rule is applicable even if the offer is extended).  
In hostile tender offers and in friendly tender offers where the offer's outcome is uncertain, MSCI 
generally waits for the results of the tender offer to be publicly announced before making any related 
changes to the MSCI Indexes.  Once the results of the tender offer are publicly announced, with at 
least two full business days advance notification, the security is:  
* Deleted from MSCI Indexes if the security's FIF has decreased below 0.15  
* Maintained in MSCI Indexes with changes in FIF and NOS, if applicable, if the security's FIF 
has not decreased below 0.15  
In addition, a standard Index constituent  with a FIF  below 0.15 is maintained  if its float -adjusted 
market capitalization after the event is above 2/3rds of 1.8 times one half of the Standard Index 
Interim Size-Segment Cut -off. 
In the case of tender offers where the offer is automatically extended in case of a successful initial 
offer period, MSCI wait s for the end of the initial offer period. Such cases are  announced before the 
end of the initial offer period.  
If a security is deleted from an index, the security is not reinstated immediately after its deletion 
even when the tender offer is subsequently declared unsuccessful and/or the free float of the 
 security is not substantially reduced. The security will be reconsidered for index inclusion at the next 
regularly scheduled Index Review.  
2.2.4  Implementation price  
MSCI uses market prices for implementation, unless the target security already ceased trading. See 
section 2.1.2 for more details.  
2.2.5  Announcement policy  
MSCI reflects hostile tender offers once they are launched using an "Undetermined" announcement 
status, except when the target has an MSCI country of classification of the USA, where hostile tender 
offers are reflected using an "Acknowledge" announcement s tatus. Once the results of the hostile 
tender offer have been announced, MSCI will send a "Confirmed" announcement with two full 
business days of advance notification before implementing any changes.   
For friendly tender offers, MSCI sends an announcement with an "Undetermined" status with at least 
3 weeks advance notification. A "Confirmed" announcement is sent at least two full business days 
before the effective date of the implementation.  
NOTE: MSCI does not send an updated "Undetermined" announcement for each new tender offer 
period extension for friendly tender offers where the minimum acceptance level is far from being 
reached at the end of the first offer period and can be extended mult iple times in the future.  
In a situation where new information is made publicly available and captured by MSCI after the 
"Confirmed" announcement has been sent, and this information would change the outcome and/or 
the likelihood of the acquisition to occur, MSCI may proceed with th e implementation as already 
announced in "Confirmed" status. This is notably relevant in the situation where a reversal of 
announced implementation would be provided with too short a notification period to clients.  
2.2.6  Country Specifics  
For the following countries, MSCI takes into account the market specifics described below to 
implement tender offers in the MSCI Indexes.  
* Brazil  
* United Kingdom  
* Germany and Switzerland  
 
2.2.6.1  Brazil specific treatment  
For tender offers, the security is deleted as of the close of the auction date as announced by the 
Bovespa Stock Exchange.  
2.2.6.2  United Kingdom specific treatment  
A security is deleted if the offer is declared unconditional in all respects and if the acquirer owns at 
least 75% of the shares of the target security (threshold required to cancel the listing on the London 
Stock Exchange).  
 2.2.6.3  Germany and Switzerland  specific treatment   
In certain tender offers , the target security's tendered shares are trading separately from the original 
non-tendered shares . In such cases , MSCI switches the security's market price to the tendered 
shares price if at the end of the first offer period all four conditions below are met:  
* The minimum acceptance level requirement is met . 
* At least 50% of the shares under acquisition are tendered . 
* An additional offer period (not an extension) will be launched . 
* The tendered shares will continue to trade after the expiration of the additional offer period . 
If all the above conditions are met, MSCI announces in "Confirmed" status, shortly after the results 
of the first offer period are made publicly available, the switch of the market price to the tendered 
line price, which will be effective at the open of th e first business day following the end of the 
additional offer period. Subsequently, the acquired or merging security is deleted from the MSCI 
Indexes using the market price of the tendered line (if trading) or offer price with at least two full 
business d ays advance notification:  
* At the end of the additional offer period provided all regulatory approvals are received or  
* After the receipt of approvals have been officially communicated  
In cases where the tender offer is later cancelled and the original shares are returned to the 
shareholders who had tendered, MSCI switches the security's market price back to the original non -
tendered share price.   
If the above conditions to switch the security's market price to tendered line are not met and the 
tender offer's outcome is uncertain, MSCI will wait for the results of the offer and changes, if any, 
would be implemented using market prices of the origina l line.   
2.3 Acquisitions involving non -index constituents  
2.3.1  Acquisitions of unlisted Securities  
Changes to a security resulting from acquisitions of non -listed companies or assets are 
implemented at a subsequent Index Review following the completion of the event and listing of the 
newly issued shares, if practicable. Such cases will be subject to the  rules applicable for the Index 
Reviews in accordance with the section 3.1.8 of the MSCI GIMI methodology.  
2.3.2  Acquisitions of Listed Non -Index Constituent Securities  
MSCI implements acquisitions of listed non -index constituents at the time of the event if the change 
in number of shares resulting from the full or partial acquisition represents at least 5%, 10% or 25% 
for Standard constituents (as well as securities assi gned to Standard size segment but failed other 
investability requirements to be added to the Index), Small Caps constituents (as well as securities 
assigned to Small Cap size segment but failed other investability requirements to be added to the 
Index) and  Micro Caps constituents ( as well as securities which are constituents of certain non-GIMI 
based Indexes ) respectively of the security's pre -event number of shares  used in MSCI Indexes .  
Changes in number of shares and FIF and/or DIF of the acquirer security are implemented coinciding 
with the completion of the event if all necessary information is publicly available, or as soon as 
 practicable following the completion of the event if such information is not available prior to the 
completion of the event.  
MSCI implements pending number of shares and/or free float updates simultaneously with the 
event. Note that if the number of shares update is smaller than + -1% on a post -event number of 
shares basis, it will be implemented at a subsequent Index Review.  
Changes that do not meet the criteria for implementation at the time of the event as explained above 
are implemented at a subsequent Index Review following the completion of the event. Such cases 
will be subject to the rules applicable for the Index Reviews in accordance with the section 3.1.8 of 
the MSCI GIMI methodology.  
2.3.3  Acquisitions of Index Constituent Securities by Non -Index Constituent Securities  
Listed non -index constituents acquiring index constituents with newly issued shares or via exchange 
of shares are generally considered for immediate inclusion in the MSCI Indexes at the time of the 
event. The same treatment applies to acquisitions of index  constituents by unlisted securities that 
are listing as part of the corporate event. For further details related to early inclusions of non -index 
constituents in the MSCI Indexes, please refer to section 3.2.3.3 of the MSCI GIMI methodology.  
2.4 Partial tender offers and buyback offers  
MSCI defines partial tender offers as the acquisitions of a predefined portion of a company's shares 
through shares and/or cash, or as share buy -backs that are carried out by means of an offer. Open -
market buy -back transactions in which shares are repurcha sed progressively are implemented as 
part of a regularly scheduled Index Review.  
Share buy -backs that are only offered to shareholders that abstain and/or vote against an event are 
not considered an event as the buy -back is only open to select shareholders. No adjustment is 
applied to the security in such cases.  
2.4.1  Fixed price offer  
For fixed price partial tender offers opened for a pre -determined period, where the offer price (or the 
terms) is announced prior to the acceptance period, a Price Adjustment Factor (PAF) of 1 is applied 
on the ex -date of the offer. In cases where the ex -date is not available, the PAF of 1 is applied on the 
first business day after the end of the offer.  
2.4.2  Dutch auction offer  
For Dutch Auctions, where the offer price and the acquired number of shares are announced after 
the end of the offer, no PAF is applied on the ex -date of the offer, as the offer price is unknown prior 
to the offer taking place.  
2.4.3  Results of partial tender offers and buyback offers  
After the results of the offer have been officially communicated, and if sufficient information is 
publicly available to determine the post -event free float, then any changes in number of shares and 
FIF and/or DIF are implemented with two full business day s advance notification, if results of the 
offer represents at least 5%, 10% or 25% for Standard constituents (as well as securities assigned to 
Standard size segment but failed other investability requirements to be added to the Index), Small 
 Caps constituents (as well as securities assigned to Small Cap size segment but failed other 
investability requirements to be added to the Index) and Micro Caps constituents ( as well as 
securities which are constituents of certain non-GIMI based Indexes ) respectively of the security's 
pre-event number of shares  used  in MSCI Indexes .  
If the shares bought back are intended to be cancelled, but the timing of the cancellation is uncertain 
or the cancellation will take place  several weeks after the results are announced, MSCI calculates the 
free float of the company assuming the bought back shares are kept as treasury.  
MSCI implements any pending number of shares and/or free float updates simultaneously with the 
implementation of the results of the offers. Note that if the number of shares update is smaller than 
+-1% on a post -event number of shares basis, it will be imp lemented at a subsequent Index Review.  
Changes in number of shares following the actual cancellation of the shares and changes that do not 
meet the criteria for implementation at the time of the event as explained above are implemented at 
the next regularly scheduled Index Review, as per the rules applicable for Index Reviews in accordance 
with section 3.1.8 of the MSCI GIMI methodology.  
For Indian securities, MSCI waits for the post -event shareholding information to be publicly released 
(generally several weeks after the completion of the offer) to implement any changes in number of 
shares and float.    
2.4.4  Split Off/Exchange Offer  
A split -off/exchange offer consists of a fixed price partial tender offer buyback in exchange for 
shares in another company. A PAF of 1 is applied on the first business day after the end of the 
partial buyback offer.  
The exchange offer ratio is determined based on the market prices of the companies involved in the 
split -off. This ratio is capped by a pre -defined upper -limit.  
When the calculated exchange offer ratio is uncertain or if there is no premium to the market price at 
the time of sending the announcement in "confirmed" status, MSCI waits for the results of the split -
off before making changes, if any, in the Number of S hares and subsequent FIF and/or DIF. Changes 
are implemented, with sufficient advance notice, after the results of the offer have been officially 
communicated.  
When the calculated exchange offer ratio offers a premium and is likely to remain above and 
therefore equal to the upper limit at the time of sending the announcement in "confirmed" status, 
MSCI implements the changes in Number of Shares and FIF and/or DIF , if any, on the business day 
following the date the PAF was applied, without waiting for the results of the exchange offer. 
Differences between announced implementation and exchange offer results, if any, will be 
implemented at the following regularly sch eduled Index Review.  
In both situations above, changes in Number of Shares and FIF and/or DIF, if any, are implemented 
only if the corresponding change in Number of Shares represents at least 5%, 10% or 25% for 
Standard constituents (as well as securities assigned to Standard size segment but failed other 
investability requirements to be added to the Index), Small Caps constituents (as well as securities 
assigned to Small Cap size segment but failed other investability requirements to be added to the 
Index) and Micro Caps const ituents ( as well as securities which are constituents of certain non-GIMI 
based Indexes ) respectively of the security's pre -event number of shares  used  in MSCI Indexes . 
 Changes  that do not meet the criteria for implementation at the time of the event as explained above  
are implemented at the next regularly scheduled Index Review, as per the rules applicable for Index 
Reviews in accordance with section 3.1.8 of the MSCI GIMI methodology.  
2.5 Conversions of Share Classes  
2.5.1  Mandatory conversions  
Full or partial conversions of an index constituent's share class into another share class resulting in 
the deletion, addition or FIF/DIF change of one or more classes of shares are implemented at the time 
of the event. If appropriate, historical links to existing securities are also made in cases of conversions 
of a share class into another share class.  
Full or partial conversions of a non -index constituent share class or an unlisted line of shares into an 
index constituents' share class are implemented at a subsequent Index Review in accordance with the 
sections 3.1.7 and 3.1.8 of the MSCI GIMI methodolo gy. 
2.5.2  Voluntary conversions  
In case of voluntary full or partial conversions of an index constituent's share class into another share 
class resulting in the deletion, addition or FIF/DIF change of one or more classes of shares, MSCI 
considers several factors to determine if the event  is to be implemented at the time of the event or at 
a subsequent Index Review. MSCI considers the following factors, among others: minimum 
conversion ratio required, intention of the major shareholders, recommendation of the Board of 
Directors, squeeze ou t option for the non -converted shares, whether or not the conversion terms are 
in line with the current market price of the other share class, whether or not there will be an additional 
conversion period.  
2.5.3  Periodical conversions  
Periodical conversions of a share class into another share class are implemented at a subsequent 
Index Review in accordance with the sections 3.1.7 and 3.1.8 of the MSCI GIMI methodology.  
For China securities, conversions of China B shares into China H shares are implemented as of the 
close of the second trading day of the China H shares instead of the last trading day of the China B 
shares in order to provide enough advance notice for implementation  considering that the B and H 
shares are listed on different exchanges.  
2.6 Pro Forma Float Calculation for M&As  
The post -event free float of an entity resulting from an M&A is estimated on a pro forma basis, unless 
the actual post -event free float is available prior to implementation. Resulting changes in FIFs and/or 
DIFs are implemented simultaneously. Pending floa t changes, if any, are implemented simultaneously 
with the event.  
When subsequent public disclosure is made by the company, regarding the new shareholder structure 
following the event, and results in a significantly different free float estimation than that calculated at 
the time of the event, MSCI will update the FIFs a nd/or DIFs at the following regularly scheduled Index 
Review.  
 2.6.1  Pro Forma Float Calculations for M&As  
2.6.1.1  Cash M&A transactions  
Cash M&A transactions have no impact on the free float of the securities of the acquiring company, 
as no new shares are issued.  
2.6.1.2  Stock -for-Stock M&A Transactions  
In stock -for-stock M&A transactions, the pro forma free float of the securities of the acquiring or 
merged entity is calculated as a weighted average of the free float of the shares of the pre -event 
entities.  
2.6.1.3  Stock and Cash M&A Transactions  
In M&A transactions involving cash and stock, the pro -forma free float of the securities of the 
acquiring or merged entity is calculated based on the information provided by the company 
indicating which shareholders will be receiving newly issued shares. I f this information is 
unavailable, then the resulting pro -forma free float is calculated as a weighted average of the free 
float of the shares of the pre merging entities.  
2.6.2  Pro Forma Float Calculations for Partial Tender Offers  
2.6.2.1  Partial Acquisitions  
The post -event free float of a partially acquired security is reduced by an amount corresponding to 
the percentage of free float shares that are acquired.  
2.6.2.2  Share Buy -Backs  
For share buy -backs carried out by means of an offer, MSCI assumes that all shareholders 
participate in the share buy -back on a pro rata basis, and as such, the post -event free float of the 
security does not change. When, based on publicly available inform ation, there are shareholders that 
will not participate in the share buy -back, this information is taken into account to determine the 
post -event free float.  
2.7 Mergers and acquisitions treatment in capped weighted and non -market 
capitalization weighted indexes  
To determine post -event index constituent weighting, mergers and acquisitions event 
implementation within Capped Weighted and Non -Market Capitalization Weighted indexes focuses 
on a Constraint Factor (see Glossary of Terms) calculation that accounts for th e proportion of cash 
and share consideration exchanged within a deal. A Number of Shares (NOS) Inflow Ratio (see 
Glossary of Terms) is the primary variable used to determine the appropriate weighted average 
calculation of post -event Constraint Factors. As illustrated below, for a merger/acquisition that 
involves only cash consideration, the acquirer's constituent weighting does not change. For any 
merger/acquisition that involves the issuance of shares (as all or part of the consideration), post -
event const ituent weighting would take into account the shares issued within in the deal; as 
determined by the NOS Inflow Ratio.   
  
Through an accounting of proportionate share inflows related to an event and an effective 'market 
neutral' approach to event implementation, the methodology aims to appropriately represent an 
investor's participation in an event based on relevant deal term s and pre -event weighting of the index 
constituents that are involved.   
 
GLOSSARY OF TERMS  
 
1. Constraint Factor (CF) : A primary factor used as a component of constituent weighting in 
non-market capitalization weighted indexes or where weighting is adjusted by a capping 
mechanism. The implementation of certain types of corporate events impacts security level 
constraint factor calculation.  
2. Variable Weighting Factor (VWF)  - The Variable Weighting Factor (VWF) is a factor that is 
used to offset the change to market capitalization that occurs as a result of a corporate 
event implementation  in Non-Market Capitalization Weighted indexes. T he VWF is also 
applied to offset any changes in post event market capitalization that may result from FIF 
rounding.  
3. Full Market Cap Adjustment Factor (FMCAF) : A factor that is used in index constituent 
weighting calculation defined as (Inclusion Factor (i.e., FIF)) *(Constraint Factor)*(Variable 
Weighting Factor).      
4. Parent Index : The index that serves as the underlying basis for a specific Capped Weighted 
or Non -Market Capitalization Weighted index.  
5.  Number of Shares (NOS) Inflow Ratio : The NOS inflow ratio reflects the consideration terms 
of the corporate event. The formula for the calculation of the NOS Inflow Ratio related to 
specific event types is explained in the table below.  
Event type  Number of Shares (NOS) Inflow Ratio Calculation  
Spin off  NOS_DISTRIBUTED/ NOS_NEEDED  
Acquisition/Partial 
Acquisition  TARGET PERCENTAGE ACQUIRED * (ACQUIRER 
SHARES ISSUED/ TARGET _SHARES NEEDED)  
Merger  (MERGING COMPANY 1_SHARES_OFFERED /MERGED 
COMPANY 1 SHARES_RECEIVED) * (MERGED 
COMPANY 2 SHARES_RECEIVED / MERGING 
COMPANY 2_SHARES OFFERED)  
Conversion  NOS_AFTER CONVERSION/ NOS_BEFORE 
CONVERSION  
 
6. Inflow Security : Any security which undergoes an increase in its number of shares as a result 
of the corporate event implementation. Inflows are identified through corporate event terms 
 (e.g. for an Acquisition with share consideration, Acquirer security will be treated as an 
Inflow Security)  
7. Counterpart Security : The security involved in a corporate event from which the inflow is 
originating. (e.g. for an Acquisition with share consideration, Target security will be treated 
as a Counterpart Security)  
8. Maintenance Formula : When the Inflow Security is already an Index constituent, the 
security's post event CF is calculated using the Maintenance Formula:  
CFt,t+iSec
=[ClosingNOSt,t+i-1Secx ParentFMCAFt,t+i-1SecxCFt,t+i-1Sec
+(NOSInflowRatioInflow jxClosingNOSt,t+i-1Inflow jxParentFMCAFt,t+i-1Inflow j x CFt,t+i-1Inflow j) Inflow j]
[ClosingNOSt,t+i-1Secx ParentFMCAFt,t+i-1Sec+(NOSInflowRatioInflow jxClosingNOSt,t+i-1Inflow jxParentFMCAFt,t+i-1Inflow j)] 
 
Where CFt,t+iSec =value of the constraint factor to be used on date t+i (post -event) as calculated on 
date t  
NOTE: For Non -Market Capitalization Weighted indexes, post event Constraint Factors take into 
account the pre -event VWF of the inflow security.  
 
* In addition, for Non -Market Capitalization Weighted Indexes, the VWF of the security is re -
calculated with event implementation in order to offset any change in market capitalization that 
may be related to FIF rounding.  
The Parent Index security Constraint Factor (CF) = 0 when the Counterpart Security is in the Parent 
Index, but not in the Capped/Non -Market Capitalization Weighted index. In addition, Parent Index Full 
Market Cap Adjustment Factor (FMCAF) = 0, when Counter part Security is not in Parent Index.  
9. Addition Formula : When the Counterpart Security is an Index constituent but the Inflow 
Security is not and will be added to the Index as per event implementation, the Inflow 
Security's post event CF is calculated using the Addition Formula  
CFt,t+iSec=[(NOSInflowRatioInflow jxClosingNOSt,t+i-1Inflow jxParentFMCAFt,t+i-1Inflow j x CFt,t+i-1Inflow j) Inflow j]
[NOSt,t+i-1Secx ParentFMCAFt,t+iSec] 
Where CFt,t+iSec =value of the Constraint Factor to be used on date t+i (post -event) as calculated on 
date t  
The calculation of a CF for a security that will be added to the Index is based on the CF of the 
securities to which it is linked (through event terms) and the shares coming into the Index from 
those securities. Once the NOS Inflow Ratio is calculated base d on event terms, it is then multiplied 
by the previous closing number of shares of the security, which results in the NOS that will come into 
the Index.  
NOTE: For Non -Market Capitalization Weighted indexes, post event Constraint Factors take into 
account the pre -event VWF of the inflow security.  
 
 In addition, for Non -Market Capitalization Weighted Indexes, the VWF of the security is re -calculated 
with event implementation in order to offset any change in market capitalization that may be related 
to FIF rounding.  
EXAMPLES OF ACQUISITION TREATMENT  
Example 1  
CONSIDERATION:   100% CASH  
EVENT CONSTITUENTS:  Company A:  INDEX CONSTITUENT  
    Company B:  INDEX CONSTITUENT  
 
Company A acquires Company B for 100% cash consideration. Both companies are in the index of 
reference. Company B shareholders will receive USD 23 for each share they own. The last trading 
day for Company B is July 26, 2016.  
 
Event Effective Date:  July 27, 2016  
 
NOS Inflow Ratio: Not relevant as consideration terms are 100% cash  
 
Pre Event Information:  
 
Company A NOS  2,123,745  
Company A FIF  0.80  
Company A CF   0.45  
Company A VWF  1 
 
Company B NOS  1,621,503  
Company B FIF  0.40  
Company B CF   0.90  
Company B VWF  1 
 
Post Event Information (Capped Weighted & Non -Market Capitalization Weighted Indexes):  
 
Company A - No change in NOS or FMCAF/FIF  
Company B - Deleted from Index as of the close of July 26, 2016 (effective on July 27, 2016)  
 
Treatment : Cash consideration will be reinvested across the Index as of the close of July 26, 2016 
with no constituent weighting change for Company A.  
 
 
Example 2  
CONSIDERATION:   100% SHARES  
EVENT CONSTITUENT:  Company A: INDEX CONSTITUENT  
Company B: INDEX CONSTITUENT  
 
Company A acquires Company B by issuing 1 share of Company A for every 2 shares of Company B. 
Company B will be deleted from the Index as of the close of June 15, 2016.  
 
 Event Effective Date:  June 16, 2016  
NOS Inflow Ratio  = Percentage Acquired*(Acquirer NOS issued/Target NOS needed)  
= 100 %*( 1/2)  
= 0.5  
 
Pre Event Information  
Company A NOS  3,457,618  
Company A FIF  0.75  
Company A CF    0.3 
Company A VWF  1 
 
Company B NOS  5,327,650  
Company B FIF  0.4 
Company B CF   0.8 
Company B VWF  1 
 
Post Event Information (Capped Weighted Indexes)  
Company A NOS  6,121,443  
Company A FIF  0.6 
Company A CF   0.44561  
Company A VWF  1 
 
Company B - deleted from the Index as of the close of June 15, 2016 (effective on June 16, 2016)  
 
Post Event Information (Non -Market Capitalization Weighted Indexes)  
Company A NOS  6,121,443  
Company A FIF  0.6 
Company A CF   0.44561  
Company A VWF  0.99615  
 
Company B - deleted from the Index as of June 15, 2016 (effective on June 16, 2016)  
 
Treatment (Capped Weighted Indexes) : As Company A (Inflow Security) is an Index constituent, the 
post event CF in this case will be calculated using the 'Maintenance Formula'. The value of the VWF 
will always be 1 for Capped Weighted Indexes.  
 
CFt,t+iSec=[ClosingNOSt,t+i-1Secx ParentFMCAFt,t+i-1SecxCFt,t+i-1Sec
+(NOSInflowRatioInflowjxClosingNOSt,t+i-1InflowjxParentFMCAFt,t+i-1Inflowj x CFt,t+i-1Inflowj) Inflowj]
[ClosingNOSt,t+i-1Secx ParentFMCAFt,t+i-1Sec+(NOSInflowRatioInflowjxClosingNOSt,t+i-1InflowjxParentFMCAFt,t+i-1Inflowj)] 
 
 = [(3,457,618*0.75*0.3) + (0.5*5,327,650*0.4*0.8)] / [(3,457,618*0.75) + (0.5*5,327,650*0.4)]  
= 0.44561  
 
Treatment (Non -Market Capitalization Weighted Indexes) : The post event CF calculation is the same 
as in the case of Capped Weighted Indexes, but the VWF of the security is recalculated.  
 
 NOTE: The event implementation is neutral for both Capped Weighted and Non -Market Capitalization 
Weighted indexes. In Capped Weighted Indexes, the difference in post event market capitalization in 
the Index is attributable to FIF rounding that occurs as per MSCI GIMI methodological guidelines. In 
Non-Market Capitalization Weighted indexes, this difference is offset through the application of the 
VWF.  
 
 
Example 3  
 
CONSIDERATION:   100% SHARES  
EVENT CONSTITUENT: Company A: INDEX CONSTITUENT  
 Company B: NON -INDEX CONSTITUENT (not in parent)  
Company A acquires Company B by issuing 1 share of Company A for every 5 shares of Company B. 
Company B will be deleted as of the close of April 11, 2017.  
 
Event Effective Date:  April 12, 2017  
NOS Inflow Ratio  = Percentage Acquired*(Acquirer NOS issued/Target NOS needed)  
  = 100 %*( 1/5)  
  = 0.2  
 
Pre Event Information  
Company A NOS  10,000,000  
Company A FIF  0.7 
Company A CF    0.3 
Company A VWF  1 
 
Company B NOS  5,000,000  
Company B FIF  0.8 
Company B CF   0 
Company B VWF  0 
 
 Pre Event  
Company  Number 
of Shares 
(NOS)  Parent 
Index 
FMCAF 
(FIF)  Constraint 
Factor 
(CF)  Variable 
Weighting 
Factor 
(VWF)  Security 
No. of 
shares in 
Index  Price (USD)  Market Cap 
of security 
in Index 
(USD)  
A 3,457,618  0.75  0.3 1 777,964  64 49,789,699  
B 5,327,650  0.4 0.8 1 1,704,848  32 54,555,136  
      Total  104,344,835  
Post Event (Capped Weighted)  
A 6,121,443  0.6 0.45  1 1,636,681  64 104,747,593  
      Difference  402,758  
Post Event (Non - Market Cap Weighted)  
A 6,121,443  0.6 0.45  0.99615  1,630,388  64 104,344,835  
      Difference  0 
 Post Event Information (Capped Weighted Indexes)  
Company A NOS  11,000,000  
Company A FIF  0.75  
Company A CF   0.3 
Company A VWF  1 
 
Company B - deleted as of the close of April 11, 2017 (effective on April 12, 2017)  
 
Post Event Information (Non -Market Capitalization Weighted Indexes)  
Company A NOS  11,000,000  
Company A FIF  0.75  
Company A CF   0.3 
Company A VWF  0.84848  
 
Company B - deleted as of the close of April 11, 2017 (effective on April 12, 2017)  
 
Treatment (Capped Weighted Indexes) : As Company B is not an index constituent and also not a 
constituent of the Parent Index, the post event CF stays unchanged. The VWF is always 1 for Capped 
Weighted Indexes.  
 
Treatment (Non -Market Capitalization Weighted Indexes) : The post event CF calculation is the same 
as in the case of Capped Weighted Indexes, but the VWF of the security is recalculated.  
Pre Event  
Company  Number of 
Shares 
(NOS)  Parent 
Index 
FMCAF 
(FIF)  Constraint 
Factor 
(CF)  Variable 
Weighting 
Factor 
(VWF)  Security No. 
of shares in 
Index  Price (USD)  Market Cap of 
security in Index 
(USD)  
A 10,000,000  0.7 0.3 1 2,100,000  30 63,000,000  
B 5,000,000  0.8 0 0 0 6 0 
      Total  63,000,000  
Post Event (Capped Weighted)  
A 11,000,000  0.75  0.3 1 2,475,000  30 74,250,000  
      Difference  11,250,000  
Post Event (Non - Market Cap Weighted)  
A 11,000,000  0.75  0.3 0.85  2,100,000  30 63,000,000  
      Difference  0 
 
NOTE: For Capped Weighted indexes, the CF of the acquirer stays unchanged resulting in the increase 
in post event market capitalization of the security in the respective index.  
In Non -Market Capitalization Weighted indexes, this difference is offset through the application of the 
VWF.  
 
 
Example 4  
CONSIDERATION:  100% SHARES  
EVENT CONSTITUENT: Company A: NON -INDEX CONSTITUENT (not in parent)  
    Company B: INDEX CONSTITUENT   
 
Company A acquires Company B by issuing 1 share of Company A for every 3 shares of Company B. 
Company B will be deleted as of the close of April 11, 2017.  
 
Event Effective Date:   April 12, 2017  
NOS Inflow Ratio  = Percentage Acquired*(Acquirer NOS issued/Target NOS needed)  
= 100 %*( 1/3)  
= 0.3333  
 
Pre Event Information  
Company A NOS  12,000,000  
Company A FIF  0.7 
Company A CF    0 
Company A VWF  0 
 
Company B NOS  9,000,000  
Company B FIF  0.8 
Company B CF   0.4 
Company B VWF  1 
 
Post Event Information (Capped Weighted Indexes)  
Company B - deleted as of the close of April 11, 2017 (effective on April 12, 2017)  
 
Post Event Information (Non -Market Capitalization Weighted Indexes)  
Company A - will not be added to the index  
Company B - deleted as of the close of April 11, 2017 (effective on April 12, 2017)  
 
Example 5  
CONSIDERATION:   CASH/SHARES  
EVENT CONSTITUENTS:  Company A: INDEX CONSTITUENT  
Company B: INDEX CONSTITUENT  
 
Company A acquires Company B by issuing 1 share of Company A and USD 10 for every 4 shares of 
Company B. Company B will be deleted from the Index as of the close of August 11, 2016.  
 
Event Effective Date:  August 12, 2016  
NOS Inflow Ratio  = Percentage acquired*(Acquirer NOS issued/Target NOS needed) = 100 %*( 
1/4)  
= 0.25  
 
Pre Event Information:  
Company A NOS  1,530,548  
 Company A FIF  0.8  
Company A CF   0.25  
Company A VWF  1 
 
Company B NOS  1,458,620  
Company B FIF  0.25  
Company B CF   0.5  
Company B VWF  1 
 
Post Event Information (Capped Weighted Indexes):  
Company A NOS  1,895,203  
Company A FIF  0.70  
Company A CF   0.267324  
Company A VWF  1 
Company B - Deleted from Index as of the close of August 11, 2016 (effective on August 12, 2016)  
 
Post Event Information (Non -Market Capitalization Weighted Indexes):  
Company A NOS  1,895,203  
Company A FIF  0.70  
Company A CF   0.267324  
Company A VWF  0.99168  
 
Company B - Deleted from Index as of the close of August 11, 2016 (effective on August 12, 2016)  
 
Treatment (Capped -Weighted Indexes):  As Company A (Inflow Security) is an Index constituent, the 
post event CF in this case will be calculated using the 'Maintenance Formula'. The VWF is always 1 
for Capped Weighted Indexes.  
 
Treatment (Non -Market Capitalization Weighted Indexes):   
The post event CF calculation is the same as in the case of Capped Weighted Indexes, but the VWF of 
the security is recalculated.  
NOTE: Cash consideration will be reinvested across the Index as of the close of August 11, 2016.  
Pre Event  
Company  Number of 
Shares 
(NOS)  Parent 
Index 
FMCAF 
(FIF)  Constraint 
Factor 
(CF)  Variable 
Weighting 
Factor 
(VWF)  Security 
No. of 
shares in 
Index  Price (USD)  Market Cap 
of security 
in Index 
(USD)  
A 1,530,548  0.8 0.25  1 306,110  50 15,305,480  
B 1,458,620  0.25  0.5 1 182,328  15 2,734,913  
      Total  18,040,393  
Post Event (Capped Weighted)  
A 1,895,203  0.7 0.27  1 354,643  50 17,732,136  
      Difference  (308,257)  
Post Event (Non - Market Cap Weighted)  
A 1,895,203  0.7 0.27  0.99168  351,691  50 17,584,574  
      Difference  (455,819)  
  
NOTE: The event implementation is neutral for both Capped Weighted and Non -Market Capitalization 
Weighted indexes and the difference in post event market capitalization is attributable to the 
proportionate cash consideration involved in the transaction.  This cash consideration will be 
reinvested across the Index. For Capped Weighted indexes, there would also likely be some 
difference in post event market capitalization attributable to an update in number of shares and FIF 
rounding.  
 
 
Example 6  
CONSIDERATION:   CASH/SHARES  
EVENT CONSTITUENTS:  Company A: INDEX CONSTITUENT  
Company B: NON -INDEX CONSTITUENT (but is in Parent Index)  
 
Company A acquires Company B by issuing 2 shares of Company A and USD 20 for every 1 share of 
Company B.  
 
Event Effective Date:  May 11, 2016.  
NOS Inflow Ratio  = Percentage acquired*(acquirer NOS issued/Target NOS needed)  
= 100 %*( 2/1)  
= 2  
 
Pre Event Information:  
Company A NOS  3,520,198  
Company A FIF  0.5  
Company A CF   0.6  
Company A VWF  1 
 
Company B NOS  621,852  
Company B FIF  0.2  
Company B CF   0  
Company B VWF  1 
 
Post Event Information (Capped -Weighted Indexes):  
Company A NOS  4,763,902  
Company A FIF  0.45  
Company A CF   0.52570  
Company A VWF  1 
 
Company B Deleted (from Parent Index)  
 
Post Event Information (Non - Market Capitalization Weighted Indexes):  
Company A NOS  4,763,902  
Company A FIF  0.45  
Company A CF   0.52570  
Company A VWF  0.9371  
 
Treatment (Capped Weighted Indexes) : As Company A (Inflow Security) is an Index constituent, the 
post event CF in this case is calculated using the 'Maintenance Formula'. In addition, as Company B 
 (Counterpart Security) is not an Index Constituent, but is part of the Parent Index, the CF of the 
Company B is considered to be 0.  
 
If Company B was not part of the Parent Index, then the FMCAF (FIF) of Company B, would be 
considered to be 0 within the calculation as noted.  
 
Treatment  (Non -Market Capitalization Weighted Indexes) :  
The post event CF calculation is the same as in the case of Capped Weighted Indexes, but the VWF of 
the security is recalculated.  
 
Pre Event  
Company  Number of 
Shares 
(NOS)  Parent 
Index 
FMCAF 
(FIF)  Constraint 
Factor 
(CF)  Variable 
Weighting 
Factor 
(VWF)  Security 
No. of 
shares in 
Index  Price (USD)  Market Cap 
of security 
in Index 
(USD)  
A 3,520,198  0.5 0.6 1 1,056,059  12 12,672,713  
B 621,852  0.2 0 1 0 44 0 
      Total  12,672,713  
Post Event (Capped Weighted)  
A 4,763,902  0.45  0.53  1 1,126,986  12 13,523,827  
      Total  13,523,827  
      Difference  851,115  
Post Event (Non -Market Cap Weighted)  
A 4,763,902  0.45  0.53  0.937066  1,056,059  12 12,672,713  
      Total  12,672,713  
      Difference  0 
 
NOTE: The event implementation is neutral for both Capped Weighted and Non -Market Capitalization 
Weighted indexes. In Capped Weighted Indexes, the difference in post event market capitalization in 
the Index is attributable to FIF rounding as per GIMI methodological guidelines. In Non -Market 
Capitalization Weighted Indexes, this difference is offset through the application of the VWF.  
 
 
Example 7  
CONSIDERATION:   100% SHARES (PARTIAL ACQUISITION)  
EVENT CONSTITUENT:  Company A: INDEX CONSTITUENT  
    Company B: INDEX CONSTITUENT  
Company A acquires 40% of Company B by issuing 1 share of Company A for every 3 shares of 
Company B.  
Company B will be maintained with a reduced FIF as of the close of February 22, 2017  
Event Effective Date:  February 23, 2017  
NOS Inflow Ratio  = Percentage Acquired*(Acquirer NOS issued/Target NOS needed)  
= 40 %*( 1/3)  
= 0.13  
 Pre Event Information  
Company A NOS  2,000,000  
Company A FIF  0.5 
Company A CF    0.7 
Company A VWF  1 
 
Company B NOS  1,500,000  
Company B FIF   0.8 
Company B CF    1.2 
Company B VWF   1 
 
Post Event Information (Capped Weighted Indexes)  
Company A NOS  2,200,000  
Company A FIF  0.55  
Company A CF   0.77  
Company A VWF  1 
 
Company B NOS  1,500,000  
Company B FIF  0.4 
Company B CF   1.2 
Company B VWF  1 
 
Post Event Information (Non -Market Capitalization Weighted Indexes)  
Company A NOS  2,200,000  
Company A FIF  0.55  
Company A CF   0.77  
Company A VWF  0.96  
 
Company B NOS  1,500,000  
Company B FIF  0.4 
Company B CF   1.2 
Company B VWF  1.2 
 
Treatment (Capped Weighted Indexes) : As Company A (Inflow Security) is an Index constituent, the 
post event CF in this case will be calculated using the 'Maintenance Formula'. VWF is always 1 for 
Capped Weighted Indexes.  
(2,000,000*0.5*0.7*1+0.13*1,500,000*0.8*1.2*1)/((2,000,000*0.5+0.13*1,500,000*0.8)*1) = 0.77  
CF of Company B is not recalculated.  
 
Treatment (Non -Market Capitalization Weighted Indexes) :  
The post event CF calculation is the same as in the case of Capped Weighted Indexes, but the VWF of 
the Inflow Security and Counterpart Security are both recalculated.  
 
Pre Event  
 Company  Number of 
Shares 
(NOS)  Parent 
Index 
FMCAF 
(FIF)  Constraint 
Factor 
(CF)  Variable 
Weighting 
Factor 
(VWF)  Security 
No. of 
shares in 
Index  Price (USD)  Market Cap 
of security 
in Index 
(USD)  
A 2,000,000  0.5 0.7 1 700,000  60 42,000,000  
B 1,500,000  0.8 1.2 1 1,440,000  20 28,800,000  
      Total  70,800,000  
Post Event (Capped Weighted)  
A 2,200,000  0.55  0.77  1 930,448  60 55,826,897  
B 1,500,000  0.4 1.2 1 720,000  20 14,400,000  
      Total  70,226,897  
      Difference  (573,103)  
Post Event (Non - Market Cap Weighted)  
A 2,200,000  0.55  0.77  0.96  892,000  60 53,520,000  
B 1,500,000  0.4 1.2 1.2 864,000  20 17,280,000  
      Total  70,800,000  
      Difference  0 
 
NOTE: The event implementation is neutral for both Capped Weighted and Non -Market Capitalization 
Weighted indexes. In Capped Weighted Indexes, the difference in post event market capitalization in 
the Index is attributable to FIF rounding as per GIMI methodological guidelines. In Non -Market 
Capitalization Weighted indexes, this difference is offset through the application of the VWF.  
 
 
Example 8  
 
CONSIDERATION:   100% SHARES (PARTIAL ACQUISITION)  
EVENT CONSTITUENT:  Company A: NON -INDEX CONSTITUENT (but is in parent Index)  
    Company B: INDEX CONSTITUENT  
 
Company A acquires 20% of Company B by issuing 1 share of Company A for every 2 shares of 
Company B. Company B will be maintained with a reduced FIF as of the close of February 14, 2018.  
 
Event Effective Date:  February 15, 2018  
NOS Inflow Ratio  = Percentage Acquired*(Acquirer NOS issued/Target NOS needed)  
= 20 %*( 1/2)  
= 0.1  
 
Pre Event Information  
Company A NOS  200,000  
Company A FIF  0.3 
Company A CF    0 
Company A VWF  1 
 
 Company B NOS  500,000  
Company B FIF  0.9 
Company B CF   1.2 
Company B VWF  1 
 
 
Post Event Information (Capped Weighted Indexes)  
Company A - added to the Index  
Company A NOS  250,000  
Company A FIF  0.45  
Company A CF    0.51  
Company A VWF  1 
 
Company B NOS  500,000  
Company B FIF  0.7 
Company B CF   1.2 
Company B VWF  1 
 
Post Event Information (Non -Market Capitalization Weighted Indexes)  
Company A -not added to the Index  
 
Company B NOS  500,000  
Company B FIF  0.7 
Company B CF   1.2 
Company B VWF  1.03  
 
Treatment (Capped Weighted Indexes) : The post event CF stays unchanged for Company B 
(Counterpart Security). VWF is always 1 for Capped Weighted Indexes. Company A (Inflow Security) 
is added to the Index, its CF is calculated using the addition formula.  
Treatment (Non -Market Capitalization Weighted Indexes) : The post event CF stays unchanged for 
Company B but VWF is recalculated. Company A is not added to the Index.  
 
Pre Event  
Company  Number of 
Shares 
(NOS)  Parent 
Index 
FMCAF 
(FIF)  Constraint 
Factor 
(CF)  Variable 
Weighting 
Factor 
(VWF)  Security 
No. of 
shares in 
Index  Price (USD)  Market Cap 
of security 
in Index 
(USD)  
A 200,000  0.3 0 1 0 20 0 
B 500,000  0.9 1.2 1 540,000  10 5,400,000  
      Total  5,400,000  
Post Event (Capped Weighted)  
A 250,000  0.45  0.51  1 57,857  20 1,157,143  
B 500,000  0.7 1.2 1 420,000  10 4,200,000  
      Total  5,357,143  
      Difference  (42,857)  
Post Event (Non -Market Cap Weighted)  
 B 500,000  0.7 1.2 1.03  432,000  10 4,320,000  
      Total  4,320,000  
      Difference  (1,080,000)  
 
NOTE: For Capped Weighted and Non -Market Capitalization Weighted Indexes, the Security No. of 
shares in Index of Company B is reduced regardless of whether Company A is added to the Index or 
not. 
 
 
EXAMPLES OF MERGER TREATMENT  
 
Example 9  
 
CONSIDERATION:   100% SHARES  
EVENT CONSTITUENT:  Company A: INDEX CONSTITUENT  
Company B: INDEX CONSTITUENT  
 
Company A merges with Company B to form Company C. Shareholders will receive one share of 
company C for every 2 shares in Company A, and every 5 shares in company B. As explained in Section 
2.9 of the methodology, MSCI will link price history of Company C with Company A.  MSCI will delete 
Company B from the index as of the close of July 27, 2017.  
 
Event Effective Date:  July 28, 2017  
NOS Inflow Ratio  = (MERGING COMPANY 1_SHARES_OFFERED /MERGED COMPANY 1 
SHARES_RECIEVED) * (MERGED COMPANY 2 SHARES_RECIEVED / 
MERGING COMPANY 2_SHARES OFFERED)  
 
= (2/1*1/5)  
= 0.4  
 
Pre Event Information  
Company A NOS  2,000,000  
Company A FIF  0.70  
Company A CF    0.30  
Company A VWF  1 
 
Company B NOS  4,000,000  
Company B FIF  0.80  
Company B CF   0.40  
Company B VWF  1 
 
Post Event Information (Capped Weighted Indexes)  
Company C (renamed from A) NOS  1,800,000  
Company C FIF    0.75  
Company C CF     0.34776  
Company C VWF    1 
 
Company B  Deleted from the Index as of the close of July 27, 2017 (effective on July 28, 
2017)  
  
Post Event Information (Non -Market Capitalization Weighted Indexes)  
Company C (renamed from A) NOS  1,800,000  
Company C FIF    0.75  
Company C CF     0.34776  
Company C VWF    0.99259  
 
Company B  Deleted from the Index as of the close of July 27, 2017 (effective on July 28, 
2017)  
 
Treatment (Capped Weighted Indexes) : As Company C is linked to Company A (Inflow Security), which 
is an Index constituent, the post event CF in this case will be calculated using the 'Maintenance 
Formula'. The value of the VWF will always be 1 for Capped Weighted Indexes.  
 
Treatment (Non -Market Capitalization Weighted Indexes) : The post event CF calculation is same as 
in case of Capped Weighted Indexes, but the VWF of the security is recalculated  
 
NOTE: The event implementation is neutral for both Capped Weighted and Non -Market Capitalization 
Weighted indexes. In Capped Weighted Indexes, the difference in post event market capitalization in 
the Index is attributable to FIF rounding as per GIMI methodological guidel ines. In Non -Market 
Capitalization Weighted indexes, this difference is offset through the application of the VWF.  
 
 
Example 10  
CONSIDERATION:   100% SHARES  
EVENT CONSTITUENT:  Company A: INDEX CONSTITUENT  
    Company B: NON -INDEX CONSTITUENT (not in parent)  
 Pre Event  
Company  Number 
of Shares 
(NOS)  Parent 
Index 
FMCAF 
(FIF)  Constraint 
Factor 
(CF)  Variable 
Weighting 
Factor 
(VWF)  Security 
No. of 
shares in 
Index  Price 
(USD)  Market Cap 
of security in 
Index (USD)  
A 2,000,000  0.7 0.3 1 420,000  30 12,600,000  
B 4,000,000  0.8 0.4 1 1,280,000  12 15,360,000  
      Total  27,960,000  
Post Event (Capped Weighted)  
C 1,800,000  0.75  0.35  1 469,478  60 28,168,657  
      Difference  208,657  
Post Event (Non -Market Cap Weighted)  
C 1,800,000  0.75  0.35  0.9926  466,000  60 27,960,000  
      Difference  0 
 Company A merges with Company B to form Company C. Shareholders will receive one share of 
company C for every 5 shares in Company A, and every 10 shares in company B. As explained in 
Section 2.9 of the methodology, MSCI will link price history of Company C  with A.   
 
Event Effective Date:  July 28, 2017  
 
NOS Inflow Ratio  =  
(MERGING COMPANY 1_SHARES_OFFERED /MERGED COMPANY 1 
SHARES_RECIEVED) * (MERGED COMPANY 2 SHARES_RECIEVED / 
MERGING COMPANY 2_SHARES OFFERED)  
= (5/1*1/10)  
= 0.5  
 
Pre Event Information  
Company A NOS  1,500,000  
Company A FIF   0.65  
Company A CF    0.6 
Company A VWF  1 
 
Company B NOS  800,000  
Company B FIF  0.8 
Company B CF   0 
Company B VWF  0 
 
Post Event Information (Capped Weighted Indexes)  
Company C (renamed from A) NOS  380,000  
Company C FIF    0.7 
Company C CF     0.6 
Company C VWF    1   
 
Post Event Information (Non -Market Capitalization Weighted Indexes)  
Company C (renamed from A) NOS  380,000  
Company C FIF     0.7 
Company C CF     0.6 
Company C VWF    0.73308  
 
Treatment (Capped Weighted Indexes) : As Company B is not an index constituent and also not a 
constituent of parent index, the post event CF stays unchanged. VWF is always 1 for Capped Weighted 
Indexes.  
 
Treatment (Non -Market Capitalization Weighted Indexes) : CF calculation is same as in case of 
Capped Weighted Indexes. VWF of the security is recalculated.  
 
Note - For Non -Market Capitalization Weighted Indexes, in cases where MSCI links price history of 
Company C with Company B, Company C will not be added to the Non -Market Capitalization 
Weighted Indexes  at the time of the event.  
  
NOTE: For Capped Weighted indexes, the CF of the acquirer stays unchanged resulting in the increase 
in post event market capitalization of the security in the respective index.  
In Non -Market Capitalization Weighted indexes, this difference is offset through the application of the 
VWF.  
2.8 Spin -Offs  
A spin -off is the free distribution of shares in a wholly -owned or a partially -owned company to the 
parent company's existing shareholders. In some countries, spin -offs are called demerger or un -
bundling. Spin -offs are implemented on a pro -rata basis to al l existing shareholders.  
2.8.1  Treatment when spun off trades on ex -date  
On the ex -date of a spin -off, a PAF is applied to the price of the security of the parent company. The 
PAF is calculated based on the terms of the transaction and the market price of the spun -off 
security. If the spun -off entity qualifies for inclusion, it  is included as of the close of its first trading 
day. 
In cases, where the distribution of the spun -off is subject to a withholding tax, MSCI reinvests a 
negative cash amount in the MSCI Net DTR Indexes on the ex -date.  
In order to decide whether the spun -off entity qualifies for inclusion, the full company market 
capitalization of the spun -off entity is estimated by MSCI prior to the spin -off being effective. These 
estimates are based on public information provided by th e parent company, including among others 
the spin -off prospectus, and estimates from brokers.  
In cases of spin -offs of partially -owned companies, the post -event free float of the spun -off entity is 
calculated using a weighted average of the existing shares and the spun -off shares, each at their 
corresponding free float. Any resulting changes to FIF s and/or DIFs are implemented as of the close 
of the ex -date.  Pre Event  
Company  Number of 
Shares (NOS)  Parent 
Index 
FMCAF 
(FIF)  Constraint 
Factor 
(CF)  Variable 
Weighting 
Factor 
(VWF)  Security 
No. of 
shares 
in Index  Price 
(USD)  Market 
Cap of 
security in 
Index 
(USD)  
A 1,500,000  0.65  0.6 1 585,000  20 11,700,000  
B 800,000  0.8 0.0 0 0 10 0       
Total  11,700,000  
Post Event (Capped Weighted)  
C 380,000  0.7 0.60  1 159,600  100 15,960,000        
Difference  4,260,000  
Post Event (Non - Market Cap Weighted)  
C 380,000  0.70  0.60  0.7331  117,000  100 11,700,000        
Difference  0 
 If the spun -off security is trading on a conditional basis or with an "as -if-and-when -issued" price 
instead of regular way on the ex -date, MSCI uses this "when -issued" price in its implementation of 
the spin off on the ex -date, for example in its PAF and i ts estimation of the market capitalization of 
the spun -off. In addition, MSCI may add the spun -off security in the MSCI Indexes, provided it 
qualifies for inclusion, using the "when -issued" prices and then the regular price.  
When the distribution date or pay date of the spin -off is at least four business days after the ex -date, 
shareholders do not receive the shares of the spun off entity on the ex -date, even if the spun off is 
trading on that day. In this situation, MSCI may decide to add a "detached" security in the MSCI 
Indexes until the distribution date. As of the close of the pay date, MSCI deletes the "detached" 
security and simultaneously implements changes in FIF and/or DIF of the distributed security in the 
MSCI Index es. Note that the "detached" security is added, maintained and deleted using the closing 
market prices of the underlying security.  
In cases of a partial spin -off of an index constituent by a non-Index constituent, changes to number 
of shares (if any) and FIF/DIF of the spun -off entity are implemented at the Index Review following 
the completion of the event and listing of the newly issued shares, if applicable. Such cases will be 
subject to the rules applicable for the Index Reviews in accordance with the section 3.1.7 and 3.1.8  
of the MSCI GIMI methodology.  
For further details on PAFs for spin -offs, see Appendix I, entitled "PAF Formulas and Definitions".  
2.8.1.1  US and Canada specific treatment  
In US and Canada, when an "as -if-and-when -issued" price is available for a spun -off security prior to 
its admission to regular trading, MSCI waits for the first "when -issued" trading price to determine the 
size segment of the spun -off security and to annou nce the implementation in the MSCI Indexes in 
"Expected" status.  
2.8.2  Spun -off not trading on the ex -date  
When the spun -off security does not trade on the ex -date, a PAF is applied to the price of the parent 
entity and a detached security is created to avoid a drop in the free float -adjusted market 
capitalization of the parent entity, regardless of whether the spun -off security is added or not. The 
detached security is included in the MSCI Indexes as of the close of the ex -date and is maintained 
until the spun -off security starts trading. The value of the detached security is equal to the difference 
between the cum pric e and the ex -price of the parent security. The price of the detached security 
remains unchanged until the spun -off security starts trading. MSCI will delete the detached as of the 
close of its first trading day, using the closing market price of the spun -off security on that day. In 
case where the terms of the distribution are different from one for one, MSCI will apply a PAF on the 
detached security on the first trading date of the spun -off security.  
In case s where a spin -off involves multiple spun -off securities which are not trading on the ex -date 
and not expected to list on same day, only one detached security will be added to the MSCI Indexes 
as of the close of the ex -date. MSCI will apply a PAF to the pri ce of the detached security, on the first 
trading day of each of the spun -off securities, as long as one or more spun -off is yet to be listed. 
MSCI will reduce the value of the detached security as of the close of each of the first trading days 
of the spun -off securities, using the closing market price of the respective spun -off security on that 
day (adjusted by the terms of the event), to reflect the listing of the spun -off security . 
 The treatment of the spun off entity remains the same as under the section 2.8.1.  
In certain cases where the spun off security is not trading on the ex -date and its market 
capitalization is estimated to be very small or there is a risk that the market price of the parent entity 
could potentially increase on the ex -date, the impact of th e event on the parent security's market 
capitalization may be considered as negligible. In those situations, as the detached security cannot 
have a negative value and to avoid neutralizing the performance of the parent entity on the ex -date 
of the event, M SCI may decide not to add the detached security. Instead, MSCI would apply a PAF of 
1 to the market price of the parent entity on the ex -date of the event. In addition, the spun -off 
security, once it starts trading on the market, would not be included in t he MSCI Indexes at the time 
of the event.  
For further details on PAFs for spin -offs, see Appendix I, entitled "PAF Formulas and Definitions".  
2.8.3  Reverse spinoffs  
MSCI determines if the spun -off is the continuation of the former parent entity and links the price 
and volume history of the parent entity to the spun -off entity based on the following factors of 
continuation: relative market capitalization size, industry  classification, domicile and previous size 
segment.  
When MSCI considers the spun -off entity as the continuation of the parent company, it is the spun -
off entity which distributes the parent and therefore a PAF is applied to the market price of the spun -
off security on the ex -date of the spin -off. The PAF is  calculated based on the terms of the 
transaction and the market price of the parent company (considered to be the distributed asset).  
When this occurs, MSCI will normally assign the market identifiers of the spun -off entity to the 
former parent entity on the ex -date of the event.  
In cases where the spun -off entity does not trade on the ex -date, MSCI will assign a fixed price to the 
spun -off entity by taking the difference between the closing price on the cum -date and ex -date of the 
parent security. This price will remain unchanged until the spun -off entity starts trading.  
For further details on PAFs related to historical links, see Appendix I, entitled "PAF Formulas and 
Definitions".  
2.8.4  Spin -Off Treatment In Capped Weighted And Non -Market Capitalization Weighted 
Indexes  
In general, the Constraint Factor (CF) of a spun -off security ('New -Co') within Capped Weighted and 
Non-Market Capitalization Weighted indexes will be the same as the CF of the primary (parent) 
security.  The exception would be if the NOS inflow of the par ent security is different than the NOS of 
the New -Co which is added to the index.  This would only be the case if the event was not 
implemented as market neutral within the Parent Index. In such a case, the index event 
implementation would use the same CF of the New -Co that was based on the CF of the parent 
security (applied for the portion of shares of New -Co corresponding to the parent security inflow). A 
CF of 0 would be used for the remaining security market capitalization.  This would result in an even t 
implementation within the Capped Weighted or Non -Market Capitalization Weighted index that 
would be viewed as market neutral.  
 In order to minimize index turnover, all New -Cos resulting from spin offs in Non -Market 
Capitalization Weighted indexes will be added at the time of the event implementation (assuming 
they are added to the Parent Index).  The New -Cos will be subject to ree valuation of index inclusion 
at the next scheduled Index Review that follows the Spin -Off. 
 
For Capped Weighted Indexes, please refer to the respective index methodology to assess relevant 
spin -off related treatment in terms of New -Co inclusion.  
 
 
Example 1  
INDEX CONSTITUENT SPINS OFF A NEW SECURITY WHICH IS ADDED TO THE INDEX  
Company A spins off Company B ('New -Co'). Shareholders of Company A will receive 2 shares of 'New -
Co' for each share held in Company A. The Ex -Date of the Event is July 11, 2016.  The New -Co will 
trade on the Ex -Date.  
  
A PAF will be applied to Company A on July 11, 2016. Company A is maintained in Parent Index and 
the New -Co will be added to the Parent Index as of the close of July 11, 2016 (effective on July 12, 
2016).  
 
Event Effective Date (PAF):    July 11, 2016  
Event Effective Date ('New -Co' Addition):  July 12, 2016  
NOS Inflow Ratio:     = (NOS Distributed/NOS Needed)  
      = (2/1)  
      = 2 
Pre Event Information  
Company A NOS  12,000,000  
Company A FIF  0.30  
Company A CF   0.65  
Company A VWF:  1 
Company B   does not exist  
 
Post Event Information  
Company A NOS  12,000,000  
Company A FIF   0.30  
Company A CF   0.65  
Company A VWF:  1 
 
Company B NOS  24,000,000  
Company B FIF  0.30  
Company B CF   0.65  
Company A VWF:  1 
 
Treatment : As the Counterpart Security ('New -Co') will be added as an Index constituent, the post 
event CF of Company B is calculated using the modification to the 'Addition Formula' below which 
results in a New -Co CF that is equal to the parent security CF.  
 
 
 
 
   
Pre- Event  
Compan
y Number of 
Shares 
(NOS)  Parent 
Index 
FMCA
F (FIF)  Constrain
t Factor 
(CF)  Variable 
Weightin
g Factor 
(VWF)  Security 
No. of 
shares in 
Index  Price (USD)  Market Cap 
of security 
in Index 
(USD)  
A 12,000,000  0.30  0.65  1 2,340,000  30 70,200,000      
  
Total  70,200,000  
Post -Event (Capped Weighted and Non -Market Cap Weighted)  
A 12,000,000  0.30  0.65  1 2,340,000  14 32,760,000  
B 24,000,000  0.30  0.65  1 4,680,000  8 37,440,000   
     Total  70,200,000  
      Difference (Post 
Event - Pre Event)  0 
 
NOTE: Event Implementation is neutral for both Capped Weighted and Non -Market Capitalization 
Weighted Indexes.  
 
 
Example 2  
INDEX CONSTITUENT SPINS OFF ANOTHER INDEX CONSTITUENT  
 
Company A spins off an existing index constituent; Company B. Shareholders of Company A will 
receive 1 share of Company B for 10 shares held in Company A. The Ex -Date of the Spin Off is June 
15, 2016.  
A PAF will be applied to Company A on June 15, 2016. A is maintained in the Index and the FIF of B 
will be increased as of the close of June 15, 2016 (effective on June 16, 2016).  
 
Event Effective Date (PAF):  June 15, 2016.  
Event Effective Date   (Increase in FIF of Company B): June 16, 2016  
NOS Inflow Ratio   = (NOS Distributed/NOS Needed)  
= (1/10)  
= 0.10  
 
Pre Event Information  
Company A NOS:  15,000,000  
Company A FIF:  0.30  
Company A CF:  0.40  
Company A VWF:  1  
 
Company B NOS:  8,000,000  
Company B FIF:  0.40  
Company B CF:  0.60  
Company B VWF:  1  
 
Post Event Information (Capped -Weighted)  
Company A NOS:  15,000,000  
Company A FIF:   0.30  
 Company A CF:    0.40  
Company A VWF:   1  
 
Company B NOS:  8,000,000  
Company B FIF:  0.50  
Company B CF:   0.57534  
Company B VWF:  1 
 
Post Event Information (Non -Market Capitalization Weighted Indexes)  
Company A NOS:  15,000,000  
Company A FIF:  0.30  
Company A CF:   0.40  
Company A VWF:  1  
Company B NOS:  8,000,000  
Company B FIF:  0.50  
Company B CF:   0.57534  
Company B VWF:  0.9125  
 
As the Inflow Security is already an Index constituent, the post Event CF of Company B is calculated 
using the 'Maintenance Formula' below:  
CFt,t+iSec=[ClosingNOSt+i-1Secx ParentFMCAFt,t+i-1SecxCFt,t+i-1Sec
+(NOSInflowRatioInflowjxClosingNOSt+i-1InflowjxParentFMCAFt,t+i-1Inflowj x CFt,t+i-1Inflowj) Inflowj]
[ClosingNOSt+i-1Secx ParentFMCAFt,t+i-1Sec+(NOSInflowRatioInflowjxClosingNOSt+i-1InflowjxParentFMCAFt,t+i-1Inflowj)] 
 
Pre Event  
Company  Number of 
Shares (NOS)  Parent 
Index 
FMCAF 
(FIF)  Constraint 
Factor 
(CF)  Variable 
Weighting 
Factor 
(VWF)  Security 
No. of 
shares in 
Index  Price 
(USD)  Market Cap 
of security 
in Index 
(USD)  
A 15,000,000  0.3 0.4 1 1,800,000  76 136,800,000  
B 8,000,000  0.4 0.6 1 1,920,000  60 115,200,000  
      Total  252,000,000  
Post Event (Capped Weighted)  
A 15,000,000  0.3 0.40  1 1,800,000  70 126,000,000  
B 8,000,000  0.5 0.575342  1 2,301,370  60 138,082,192  
      Total  264,082,192  
      Difference  12,082,191  
Post Event (Non -Market Cap Weighted)  
A 15,000,000  0.3 0.4 1 1,800,000  70 126,000,000  
B 8,000,000  0.5 0.575342  0.9125  2,100,000  60 126,000,000  
      Total  252,000,000  
      Difference  0 
 
NOTE: The event implementation is neutral for both Capped -Weighted and Non -Market Capitalization 
Weighted indexes. In Capped Weighted indexes, the difference in post event market capitalization in 
the Index is attributable to FIF rounding as per GIMI methodological guidelines. In Non -Market 
Capitalization Weighted indexes, this difference is offset through the application of the VWF.  
 
 
  
 
Example 3  
REVERSE SPIN OFF - INDEX CONSTITUENT SPINS OFF A NEW SECURITY WHICH IS ADDED TO 
THE INDEX  
Company A spins off Company B ('New -Co'). Shareholders of Company A will receive 1 share of 'New -
Co' for each share held in Company A.  
 
It is determined that Company B should be a continuation of the former parent entity (Company A) 
and the event is treated as a "Reverse Spin off" as described in section 2.8.3 of the methodology book.  
The Ex -Date of the Event is July 27, 2017.  The New -Co will trade on the Ex -Date.  
  
Company A will be maintained in parent Index with a change of Name and identifiers to that of 
Company B.  and PAF will be applied to Company B on July 27, 2017.  
The former parent entity Company A which is now treated as the spun off entity is added to the parent 
index as of the close of July 27, 2017 (effective on July 28, 2017).  
Event Effective Date (PAF):    July 27, 2017  
Event Effective Date ('New -Co' Addition):  July 28, 2017  
NOS Inflow Ratio:     = (NOS Distributed/NOS Needed)  
      = (1/1)  
      = 1 
Pre Event Information  
Company A NOS  1,000,000  
Company A FIF   0.40  
Company A CF   0.60  
Company A VWF:  1 
 
Company B   Does not exist  
 
Post Event Information  (Note that Name of Company A is changed to Company B)  
Company B NOS  1,000,000  
Company B FIF   0.40  
Company B CF   0.60  
Company B VWF:  1 
 
Company A NOS  1,000,000  
Company A FIF  0.40  
Company A CF   0.60  
Company A VWF:  1 
 
Treatment : As the spun off entity is added to the index, the post event CF of Company B is 
calculated using the 'Addition Formula'   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
Pre- Event  
Company  Number 
of Shares 
(NOS)  Parent 
Index 
FMCAF 
(FIF)  Constraint 
Factor 
(CF)  Variable 
Weighting 
Factor 
(VWF)  Security 
No. of 
shares 
in Index  Price 
(USD)  Market 
Cap of 
security in 
Index 
(USD)  
A 1,000,000  0.40  0.6 1 240,000  50 12,000,000  
      Total  12,000,000  
Post -Event (capped weighted and non-market cap weighted)  
B 1,000,000  0.40  0.6 1 240,000  35 8,400,000  
A 1,000,000  0.40  0.6 1 240,000  15 3,600,000  
      Total  12,000,000  
      Difference 
(Post 
Event -Pre 
Event)  0 
 
NOTE: Event Implementation is neutral for both Capped Weighted and Non-Market Capitalization 
Weighted Indexes.  
2.9 Historical Links and PAFs  
2.9.1  Mergers  
In cases of mergers, MSCI links the price and volume history of one of the merging entities with the 
price of the newly merged entity.  
The factors of continuation prevail with the merging entity, which will provide the price and volume 
history to the resulting entity. These factors of continuation include: relative market capitalization 
size, industry classification, domicile, merging ent ity determined as the legal acquirer and previous 
size segment.  
A PAF is applied on the first trading day of the merged entity to ensure that the price of the merged 
entity is comparable to the price of the merging entity. For mergers that encompass suspension 
periods, the PAF is applied on the first suspension day of the merged entity.  
A PAF is required only when the terms of exchange are different from one for one. The PAF is based 
on the specific terms of the merger. In cases of mergers where the terms of exchange are one for 
one with one of the merging entities, MSCI may implement the  event as an acquisition via mutual 
agreement for shares.  
For further details on PAFs related to historical links, see Appendix I, entitled "PAF Formulas and 
Definitions".  
 3 Corporate Actions  
Corporate actions such as splits, stock dividends and rights issues, which affect the price of a 
security, require a price adjustment. PAFs are applied on the ex -date of the event to allow (as per the 
Laspeyres' concept) security prices to be comparable be tween the ex -date and the cum date. To do 
so, MSCI adjusts for the value of the right and/or the value of the special assets that are distributed 
and the changes in number of shares and FIF, if any, are reflected as of the close of the ex -date. 
Corporate a ctions that require a PAF are described below.  
In general, corporate actions do not impact the free float of the securities because the distribution of 
new shares is carried out on a pro rata basis to all existing shareholders. Therefore, MSCI does not 
implement any pending number of shares and/or free  float updates simultaneously with the event.  
If a security does not trade on the ex -date of the corporate action, the event will be implemented on 
the day the security resumes trading. Some exchanges (for example but not limited to: London, Xetra 
and Hong Kong stock exchanges ) may provide a price on the ex -date, as described in Appendix VII of 
MSCI Index Calculation Methodology, when a security does not trade. In such cases, the index 
calculations will use the price provided by the exchange and the event will be implemented 
simultaneously . In addition, if a security trades ex on a Sunday, a PAF will be applied to the security 
on the following  Monday , regardless of  the security's trading s tatus on Monday  (including public 
holidays ). 
For further details on PAF formulas for corporate actions, see Appendix I, entitled "PAF Formulas 
and Definitions".  
3.1 Splits / Reverse Splits /Consolidations   
These events are characterized by a pro rata distribution of shares to shareholders, or a pro rata 
consolidation of shares held by existing shareholders. Market prices and number of shares of 
securities are adjusted accordingly. As no funds flow into or ou t of the company and its securities, 
the free float -adjusted market capitalization value remains unchanged.  
3.2 Stock Dividends / Bonus Issues  
3.2.1  Distribution of New Underlying Shares  
This event is characterized by a free distribution of new shares to existing shareholders on a pro rata 
basis. Market prices and number of shares of securities are adjusted accordingly. As no funds flow 
into or out of the company and its securities, the fr ee float -adjusted market capitalization value 
remains unchanged.  
In rare occasions, the shares distributed by the company are existing treasury shares. In such cases, 
the number of shares generally remains unchanged. However, depending on the size of the 
distribution, the free float of the company is reviewed and the FI F may be changed following the 
event. Pending NOS and/or float changes, if any, are not implemented simultaneously with the event.   
In Taiwan, stock dividends can be distributed from capital surplus or retained earnings. The portion 
of stock dividends distributed from retained earnings is subject to the default withholding tax rate 
against the par value of each new share. The portion o f stock dividends paid out of capital surplus is 
 not subject to a withholding tax. In the event that stock dividends are distributed from retained 
earnings, to take into account this withholding tax in the MSCI Indexes, MSCI reinvests a negative 
amount corresponding to the withholding tax in the MSCI Net  Daily Total Return (DTR) Indexes only.  
In India, shares issued as part of a stock dividend (of shares in the same company) are subject to 
capital gains tax of up to 20%. MSCI reinvests a negative amount on the ex -date of the stock 
dividend corresponding to the capital gains tax in the MSCI Net Daily Total Return (DTR) Indexes 
only. Based on the theoretical ex -price (calculated using the price as of "Confirmed Date -1") of the 
security, an estimated negative amount is provided in MSCI product files starting from the date of 
Confirmed announcement . The final negative amount is announced intraday on the ex -date based on 
the closing price of the security. Negative amount per share will be calculated as follows:  
Negative amount per share = (Closing price of the security on the ex -date* Shares Issued*  20%)/ 
Shares before  
For example : If ABC Ltd.  Announces a stock dividend with an ex -date of April 6, 2020; with terms of 
2 new shares for every 5 shares held; and closing price of ABC Ltd. On ex-date of April 6, 2020 is INR 
1408.82, MSCI calculate the negative amount per share as below:  
 
Negative amount per share = (INR 1408.82*2* 20%)/5 = INR 112.7056  
This negative reinvestment is reflected simultaneously with the PAF on the ex -date of the respective 
stock dividend. For more information about the treatment of withholding tax on Taiwanese and 
Indian  stock dividends, please refer to the MSCI Index Calculation Methodology, Section 2: MSCI 
Daily Total Return (DTR) Index Methodology.  
MSCI reserves the right to extend the treatment applicable for Taiwan ese and Indian  stock dividends 
to other stock dividends with similar features in other countries.  
In many cases , shares issued following stock dividends / bonus issues  are entitled to forthcoming 
cash dividends paid by the company, however, in rare cases, the shares issued are not entitled to the 
forthcoming cash dividend . In cases where the shares issued are not entitled to the forthcoming 
dividend, if the cash dividend amount is known before the ex -date of the stock dividend and if the 
impact of the cash dividend is deemed significant, the market price of the security is adjusted with a 
PAF that takes  into account the forthcoming cash dividend.  
MSCI use s the gross amount of the cash dividend per share, as announced by the company, in the 
PAF calculation.  
If the cash dividend amount is unknown at the time of the stock dividend's ex -date, then the  market 
price of the security is adjusted with a PAF that does not take into account the forthcoming cash 
dividend (which is a PAF similar to the one applied in case of regular stock dividends).  
3.2.2  Distribution of Other Types of Assets  
In the case of a distribution of other types of assets (e.g. bonds, warrants, preferred shares, shares 
in another company), the price of the underlying share is adjusted only when the value of the other 
asset is available on the ex -date. The number of unde rlying shares generally remains unchanged.  
When the other asset distributed is unlisted or no market price of the other asset is available on the 
ex-date, MSCI applies a PAF of 1 on the ex -date.  
 When the distribution date or pay -date of a listed asset is at least four business days after the ex -
date, MSCI adds a "detached" security in the MSCI Indexes as of the close of the ex -date. The 
"detached" security is maintained in the MSCI Indexes at the market price of the distributed listed 
asset until the pay -date. MSCI implements the changes related to the distribution as of the close of 
the pay -date and simultaneously deletes the "detached" security.  
3.3 Capital Repayments  
A capital repayment or a return of capital is characterized by a cash distribution from the company's 
share capital or capital surplus to its shareholders.  
Capital repayments that are deemed to be extraordinary compared to the dividend policy of the 
company or to the historical cash distributions are reinvested in the MSCI Indexes through an 
adjustment. A PAF using the gross capital repayment amount, regardle ss of its size, is applied to the 
security's market price on the ex -date.  
Capital repayments,  paid in lieu of a regular cash dividend or in line with the dividend policy of the 
company or with the historical cash distributions,  are treated in the same manner as regular cash 
dividends paid out of retained earnings, and are therefore reinvested on their ex -date in the MSCI 
Daily Total Return (DTR) Indexes, regardless of their size. Provided that the capital repayment is not 
subjec t to withholding tax, the reinvestment in the DTR Indexes is free of withholding tax. For more 
informat ion about the treatment of such "regular" capital repayments, please refer to MSCI Index 
Calculation Methodology, Section 2: MSCI Daily Total Return (DTR) Index Methodology.  
In Taiwan, a cash distribution paid out of capital surplus is considered as regular unless specified by 
the company that the distribution is deemed to be extraordinary. The cash distribution is reinvested 
in the MSCI DTR Indexes. Regarding the withholding tax treatment, please refer to Sub -Section 
"Country Exceptions" under the Section "Withholding Tax" in the MSCI Index Calculation 
Methodology.  
3.4 Special Cash Dividends  
A special cash dividend is a distribution of cash made by a company to its shareholders. The funds 
are paid out of annual profits, capital and/or reserves.  
Special cash dividends that are smaller than 5% of the market price of the underlying security are not 
adjusted on the ex -date, but are reinvested in the MSCI DTR Indexes.  
Special dividends that are greater than or equal to 5% of the market price of the underlying security 
on the date the event is announced in "confirmed" status are reinvested in the MSCI Indexes through 
an adjustment on the ex -date. A PAF using the gross di vidend amount is applied to the MSCI Price 
Indexes, the MSCI Gross DTR Indexes and the MSCI Net DTR Indexes. Note that MSCI will not cancel 
the PAF implementation if the size of the special dividend becomes smaller than 5% after it has been 
announced in "c onfirmed" status.  
For special cash dividends that are greater than or equal to 5% of the market price and subject to 
withholding taxes, MSCI reinvests a negative amount corresponding to the withholding tax in the 
MSCI Net DTR Indexes only. This negative amount is reflected simultaneously with the PAF on the 
ex-date of the special cash dividend. For more information about the treatment of special dividends 
 subject to withholding taxes, please refer to section 2.2.4 of the MSCI Index Calculation 
Methodology.  
3.5 Optional Dividends  
In the case of an optional dividend, the company offers shareholders the choice of receiving the 
dividend either in cash or in shares.  
MSCI implements optional dividends assuming that investors elect the default distribution.  
When cash is the default option, MSCI reinvests the cash amount in the MSCI DTR Indexes on the ex -
date and if some shareholders choose to take the stock option, when it is confirmed, the number of 
shares will be increased accordingly at the next regularly scheduled Index Review.  
When stock is the default option, MSCI applies a Price Adjustment Factor (PAF) on the ex -date and 
increases the number of shares as of the close of the ex -date, similarly to a stock dividend . If some 
shareholders choose to take the cash option, when it is confirmed, the number of shares will be 
decreased accordingly at the next regularly scheduled Index Review.  In such cases, the cash 
dividend amount option is not reinvested in the MSCI DTR Indexes, but is taken into account for the 
company 's yield calculat ions.  
If no default distribution is specified, MSCI assumes that investors elect the cash option and treats 
the dividend as a regular cash dividend in the MSCI DTR Indexes.  
Optional Dividends do not impact the free float of the securities because the distribution of new 
shares is assumed to be carried out on a pro rata basis to all existing shareholders.  
3.5.1  Country Specifics  
For the following countries, MSCI takes into account the market specifics described below to 
implement optional dividends  in the MSCI Indexes : 
* United States  
* Hong Kong  and Netherlands  
3.5.1.1  US specific treatment  
Optional dividends in the US are subject to election (cash or shares) and pro -ration (cash amount is 
capped), which determine the final combination of cash and shares received by shareholders.  
The terms of the optional dividend are calculated assuming that the cash component is equal to the 
cap announced by the company and that the remaining part will be paid in new shares.     
If the total dividend amount is greater or equal than 5% of the security's market price, MSCI applies a 
PAF on the ex -date reflecting the cash and the shares components and increases the security's 
number of shares as of the close of the ex -date.  
If the total dividend amount is smaller than 5% of the security's market price, MSCI applies a PAF on 
the ex -date reflecting only the shares component, increases the security's number of shares as of 
the close of the ex -date and reinvests the cash componen t in the MSCI DTR Indexes.  
 3.5.1.2  Hong Kong and Netherlands specific treatment  
For optional dividends in Hong Kong and the Netherlands, in cases where stock is the default option, 
the stock ratio terms are not available prior to the ex -date, MSCI reinvests the cash option in the 
MSCI DTR Indexes.  
3.6 Rights Issues  
In a rights issue, the company offers existing shareholders the right to purchase new shares, in many 
cases, at a cost below the current market price. Rights issues result in capital inflow, and increase 
both the number of shares and the free float -adjuste d market capitalization of a security.  
If a security does not trade for any reason on the ex -date of the rights issue, the event will be 
implemented on the day the security resumes trading.  
MSCI applies a PAF to the market price of the security on the ex -date of a rights issue. The PAF 
applied depends on the market price of the security on the ex -date compared to the subscription 
price of the rights issue. The number of shares is increased as  of the close of the ex -date, except for 
rights issues which are offered at a premium to the market price and which are not fully underwritten 
(see section 3.6.3 below). The decision whether or not to increase the number of shares of the 
security as of the  close of the ex -date is announced by MSCI before the ex -date based on current 
market prices compared to the subscription price, among other factors. MSCI re -assesses this 
decision based on the closing price of the security on the cum -date.  
Rights issues that are expected to increase the company's full market capitalization by at least 50% 
trigger a size review that can result in downward migration. In such cases, provided that MSCI can 
provide at least two full business days advance notifica tion, the migration is implemented as of the 
close of the cum date of the rights issue. When two full business days advance notification cannot 
be provided,  such migrations are considered for implementation as part of the next regularly 
scheduled Index Re view  (for which the price cut off date as defined in the MSCI GIMI  methodology  is 
following the ex-date of the rights issue ) in accordance with the Index Review rules stated in the 
MSCI GIMI  methodology.  
Note that treatment of upward migrations due to rights issues is described in section 3.6.5.  
Most of the time , shares issued following rights issues are entitled to forthcoming dividends paid by 
the company, however, in certain cases, the shares issued are not entitled to the forthcoming 
dividend and the PAF applied to the security on the right issue's ex -date is  different as explained 
below.  
3.6.1  Rights for New Underlying Shares with Normal Dividend Entitlement  
3.6.1.1  Rights for new underlying shares (Discount to market Price)  
A PAF is applied to the market price of the security on the ex -date of the rights issue if the 
subscription price of the new shares is below the market price on the ex -date.  
 3.6.1.2  Rights for new underlying shares ( Premium to market price)  
If the subscription price of the new shares is greater than or equal to the market price on the ex -date, 
MSCI reflects the rights issue on the ex -date  by apply ing a PAF of 1. 
3.6.2  Rights for New Underlying Shares Not Entitled to Forthcoming  Dividend  
In the case of a rights issue where the new shares to be issued following the rights issue are not 
entitled to the forthcoming known dividend paid by the company , the market price of the security is 
adjusted with a PAF that takes into account the forthcoming dividend.  
If the dividend amount is unknown at the time of the rights issue's ex -date, then the  market price of 
the security is adjusted with a PAF that does not take into account the forthcoming dividend (which 
is a PAF similar to the one applied in case of rights issues where new shares are entitled to 
forthcoming dividend).   
For the dividend reinvestment in the MSCI Daily Total Return ( DTR ) Indexes  on the dividend ex -date , 
MSCI reinvests the full dividend amount as announced by the company, using the number of shares 
on the cum -date  of the dividend, in accordance with the MSCI Index Calculation Methodology. This  is 
the number of shares post -rights issue  for cases where the number of shares is increased as of the 
close of the ex -date of the rights issue  (see section 3 .6.3).  
3.6.2.1  Rights for new underlying shares not entitled to forthcoming dividend (Discount to 
Market Price)  
A PAF is applied to t he market price of the security on the ex -date of the rights issue i f the 
subscription price of the new shares not entitled to the forthcoming dividend  is below the market  
price on the ex -date  minus the dividend per share , provided that  the dividend amount is available . 
MSCI use s the gross amount of the dividend per share, as announced by the company, in the PAF 
calculation.  
3.6.2.2  Rights for new underlying shares not entitled to forthcoming dividend (Premium to 
Market Price)  
If the subscription price of the new shares not entitled to the forthcoming dividend is greater than or 
equal to the market price on the ex -date minus the dividend per share, MSCI reflects the rights issue 
on the ex -date  by apply ing a PAF of 1. 
For further details on PAF formulas, see Appendix I, entitled "PAF Formulas and  Definitions".  
3.6.3  Number of Shares, FIF and/or DIF Changes Following Rights for New Underlying Shares  
In cases of rights of new underlying shares, the decision whether or not to increase the number of 
shares of the security as of the close of the ex -date is announced by MSCI before the ex -date based 
on current market prices compared to the subscription pri ce, among other factors. MSCI re -
assesses this decision based on the closing market price of the security on the cum -date.  
 3.6.3.1  Rights Issues offered at a discount to market price 
If the subscription price of the new shares is below the market price of the security at the time MSCI 
confirms the implementation of a rights issue, the rights issue is assumed to be fully subscribed on 
a pro rata basis and the number of shares of the sec urity is increased accordingly as of the close of 
the ex -date.  
The treatment above is also applied if a strategic investor publicly announces prior to  the ex -date its 
intention to not participate on a pro -rata basis in a rights issue or when treasury shares are not  
entitled to receive the new shares. Changes in NOS/FIF/DIF on account of the results of the rights 
issue are implemented at a following regularly scheduled Index Review in accordance with sections 
3.1.7 and 3.1.8 of the MSCI GIMI Methodology book . 
3.6.3.2  Rights Issues offered at a premium to market price 
If the subscription price of the new shares is greater than or equal to the market price of the security 
at the time MSCI confirms the implementation of a rights issue, then the number of shares and the 
FIF and/or DIF of the security is not changed as of t he close of the ex -date unless the rights issue is 
fully underwritten (see next paragraph). If the rights issue is not fully underwritten, MSCI implements 
changes in the number of shares and subsequent FIF and/or DIF changes, with at least two full 
busines s days advance notification, after the results have been officially communicated, provided 
that the number of new shares issued is at least 5%, 10% or 25% for Standard constituents (as well 
as securities assigned to Standard size segment but failed other i nvestability requirements to be 
added to the Index), Small Caps constituents (as well as securities assigned to Small Cap size 
segment but failed other investability requirements to be added to the Index) and Micro Caps 
constituents ( as well as securities which are constituents of certain non-GIMI based Indexes ) 
respectively of the security's pre -event number of shares  used in MSCI Indexes . MSCI implements 
pending number of shares and/or free float updates simultaneously with the event. Note that if the 
number of shares update is smaller than + -1% on a post -event number of shares basis, it will be 
implemented at a subsequent Index Review.  
Changes that do not meet the criteria for implementation at the time of the event as explained above  
are implemented at a subsequent Index Review. Such cases will be subject to the rules applicable 
for the Index Reviews in accordance with the section 3.1.8  of the MSCI GIMI methodology.  
3.6.3.3  Fully underwritten Rights Issues  
For rights issues which are fully underwritten, the securities' number of shares of the company 
making the right issue is increased as of the close of the ex -date, regardless of  the rights issue being  
offered at a premium or discount to the market price.  
For rights issues which are fully underwritten and are offered at a premium to market price, in case 
the underwriter is a government or a shareholder or group of shareholders of a strategic nature, the 
new shares issued following the rights issue are considered as non -free float and the securities' FIF 
and/or DIF of the company makin g the rights issue are adjusted at the time of the event. In case the 
underwriters are investment bankers and/or brokers, the new shares issued following the rights 
issue are considered on a pro rata basis.  
 3.6.3.4  Rights issues with incomplete information on the ex -date  
For rights issues where the subscription price is not known on the ex -date, MSCI does not apply a 
PAF on the ex -date but  waits until the subscription price is announced by the company.  
MSCI compares the subscription price on the day it is publicly announced with the security's closing 
market price.  
In cases where the subscription price is below the closing market price, MSCI applies a PAF and 
increases the security's number of shares providing two full business days advance notification.  
In cases where the subscription price is above the closing market price (and not fully underwritten), 
MSCI applies a PAF of 1 and implements changes in NOS/FIF/DIF, if any, after the results of the 
rights issue are publicly announced, similar to rights issues offered at a premium (see section 
3.6.3.2 ). 
In cases where the subscription price is above the closing market price and the rights issue is fully 
underwritten, MSCI applies a PAF of 1 and implements changes in NOS/FIF/DIF providing two full 
business days advance notification.   
Note that for the above scenarios, PAF and NOS/FIF/DIF changes, if applicable, are implemented no 
later than the last day of the subscription period, which in some cases may shorten the advance 
notification to less than two full business days notification.   
If the subscription price is not available before the end of the subscription period, MSCI does not 
apply a PAF . Changes in NOS/FIF/DIF, if any, are implemented after the results of the rights issue are 
publicly announced, similar to rights issues offered at a premium (see section 3.6.3.2).   
3.6.3.5  Rights Issues For Securities With Several Classes of Shares  
For rights issues affecting a company with several classes of shares that are all index constituents 
and where they are all given the rights to subscribe to new shares for only one class of shares, MSCI 
reflects the change in the NOS and/or FIF/DIF at the time of the event.  
For rights issues where one class of shares, not an index constituent, is given the right to subscribe 
to new shares of an index constituent class of shares, MSCI will defer the changes in NOS and/or in 
FIF/DIF coming from the non -index constituent class o f shares to the next regularly scheduled Index 
Review following the completion of the event.  
For example, a company with 2 classes of shares A and B, where A is an index constituent and B is 
not an index constituent, is doing a right issue where both A and B shares are given the right to 
subscribe to A shares only. MSCI implements the event by tak ing into consideration the rights given 
to holders of the A shares only. Changes in the NOS and/or FIF/DIF coming from the B shares 
holders participation in the rights issue will be implemented as part of the next regularly scheduled 
Index Review following  the completion of the event.  
3.6.4  Rights for Other Types of Assets  
In the case of a rights issue entitling the purchase of assets other than the underlying share (e.g. 
bonds, warrants, preferred shares, shares in another company), the price of the underlying share is 
 adjusted only if the value of the right is available on the ex -date. The number of underlying shares 
remains unchanged.  
In certain countries (Hong Kong, Australia) preferential offerings provide a preferential right to 
investors to purchase assets (shares of another company, notes, convertible preference shares for 
example) at an offer price. MSCI does not apply a  PAF to reflect such preferential offerings.  
3.6.5  Highly Dilutive or Large Rights Issues  
MSCI defines highly dilutive or large rights Issues as rights issues with terms 5 for 1 or more or 
rights issues that trigger an upward size segment migration. The rights and subscription cash are 
added to the index for such rights issues.  
When the subscription price is below the market price, h ighly dilutive and large rights issues are 
implemented as below:  
* MSCI applies the PAF to the market price of the security on ex -date using the value of  the 
right s. 
* MSCI adds both the rights and subscription cash to the index as of the close of  the ex-date 
(effective next trading day).  
* MSCI deletes both right and subscription cash from the index as of the close of  the pay-date 
(effective next trading day).  
* MSCI increases NOS resulting from the rights issue as of the close of pay -date (effective 
next trading day).  
MSCI defines pay -date as the first trading day of new shares resulting from the rights issue.  
The price of the rights , used for addition, maintenance and deletion of the rights as well as to apply 
PAF on the ex -date , is determined as follows.  If the rights trade, MSCI will use the market price  for 
the price of the rights. If the rights do not trade, MSCI will use the intrinsic value for the price of the 
rights. However, if the intrinsic value of the rights is less than or equal to zero, MSCI will use the 
lowest system price of 0.00001 for the price of the rights.  Please refer to Appendix I for more details 
on the calculation of the intrinsic value of the rights.  
The price of the subscription cash , used for addition, maintenance and deletion of the subscription 
cash,  will be equal to the subscription price of the new shares in the rights issue.  If the intrinsic value 
of the rights is less than or equal to zero, the price of the subscription cash will be adjusted by the 
difference between the  subscription price of the new shares and the market price of the security.  
When the subscription price is equal to or above the market price at the time of confirming the event,  
rights and subscription cash are not added to the Index , even if the rights issue is fully underwritten. 
The changes in NOS and FIF, if any, are postponed to the pay -date and implemented after the results 
have been publicly communicated, but no earlier than the pay -date.  
For large rights issues that trigger an upward migration, the migration will be implemented as of the 
close of  the cum -date (ex -date -1) if all necessary information is publicly available such that MSCI is 
able to provide at least two full business days prior to the migration becoming effective in the 
indexes. Otherwise, such migrations are considered for implement ation as part of the Index review 
 following the pay -date of the rights issue in accordance with the Index Review rules stated in the 
MSCI GIMI  methodology1. 
MSCI will cover only the securities belonging to the IMI as per the above implementation. For Micro 
cap constituents, MSCI applies a PAF to the market price of the security on ex -date using the value 
of rights if trading on ex -date and increases NOS as of close of ex -date.  
3.6.6  Country specifics   
For the following countries, MSCI takes into account the market specifics described below to 
implement rights issues in the MSCI Indexes.  
Country Specifics 
Country  Rights issue type  Treatment  
Australia , 
China, New 
Zealand  Rights issues with 
subscription period 
before the ex -date  Certain rights issues have their subscription period end -date before security 
starts to trade on an ex-rights basis. The security is generally suspended 
during the subscription period.  
In such cases, when a security is suspended, MSCI maintains the security 
using the theoretical ex price from the effective date (date on which PAF is 
applied) of rights issue until the date security resumes trading. Additionally, 
MSCI applies a Price Adjustment Factor (PAF) to the theoretical ex -price of 
the security during the suspension period but no later than the last day of the 
subscription period. MSCI implements the event using the methodology 
applicable for Highly Dilutive Rights Issue (as defined i n section 3.6.5 above).  
MSCI will cover only the securities belonging to the IMI as per the above  
implementation. For Micro cap constituents, implementation will be in 
acco rdance with Section 3.6.1, 3.6.2 and 3.6.3.  
 
India  Rights issue of 
partly paid shares  For certain rights issues in India, the subscription payment is due in multiple 
instalments , entitling shareholders to intermediate partly paid shares 
ineligible for inclusion into the MSCI Indexes. In such cases, MSCI applies a 
Price Adjustment Factor (PAF) using the price of the rights, if the rights are 
trading on the ex -date, else a PAF of 1. Changes in NOS/FIF /DIF  due to the 
conversion of partly paid shares into fully paid shares are implemented at a 
subsequent Index Review subject to conditions stated  in sections 3.1.7 and 
3.1.8 of the MSCI GIMI Methodology or at the time of subsequent corporate 
events outside Index Reviews . 
Italy Rights issues of 
right of withdrawal 
shares  MSCI generally does not apply a Price Adjustment Factor (PAF) for rights 
issues in which the shares offered to shareholders are shares that were 
 
1 Security's migration will be evaluated using Index review rules if the pay date is before the price cut off date or using the corporate 
events rules (section 3. 2.3.2 of GIMI methodology) if the pay -date is after the price cut -off date (provided the pay date is at least 3 
business days prior to the Index Review effective date.  
 
 bought back by the company due to the exercise of the right of withdrawal by 
some shareholders.  
Norway  Repair issues  MSCI generally does not apply a Price Adjustment Factor (PAF) for repair 
issues in Norway. Changes resulting from repair issues or subsequent 
offerings are implemented after the results of both the offering and the 
subsequent offering are made publicly ava ilable. Please refer to section 4.3 
for additional details.  
 
3.6.7  Rights issue treatment in Capped Weighted and  non-market capitalization weighted 
indexes   
In the case of a rights issue, where the subscription price of the new shares is lower than the market 
price on the ex -date, the outstanding number of shares of a security will increase based on the terms 
of the event. In Non -Market Capitalization Weighted indexes, this change in the number of shares 
will be offset by the application of the VWF; resulting in a post event number of shares equal to pre -
event number of shares for the security. The following example provides guidance for treatment of 
rights issues in Capped Weighted and Non -Market Capitalization Weighted Indexes.  
Example 1  
EVENT CONSTITUENT:  Company A: INDEX CONSTITUENT  
For every 2 shares held in Company A, shareholders can acquire 1 additional share at a subscription 
price of USD 6.  
Event Effective Date:  February 21, 2017  
 
Pre Event Information  
Company A NOS  6,000,000  
Company A FIF  0.35  
Company A CF   0.3 
Company A VWF  1 
 
Post Event Information  
Company A NOS  9,000,000  
Company A FIF   0.35  
Company A CF   0.3 
Company A VWF  0.67  
 
Treatment: As no Inflow is generated, the CF of the security will stay unchanged. The VWF of the 
security is recalculated.   
Pre Event  
Company  Number 
of Shares 
(NOS)  Parent Index 
FMCAF (FIF)  Constraint 
Factor 
(CF)  Variable 
Weighting 
Factor 
(VWF)  Security 
No. of 
shares 
in Index  Price 
(USD)  Market 
Cap of 
security 
in Index 
(USD)  
A 6,000,000  0.35  0.3 1 630,000  10 6,300,000  
 Post Event (Capped Weighted)  
A 9,000,000  0.35  0.3 1 945,000  8.67  8,190,000  
Post Event (Non - Market Cap Weighted)  
A 9,000,000  0.35  0.3 0.67  630,000  8.67  5,460,000  
 
Post event price of USD 8.67 is theoretical ex -price calculated based on the terms of the event.  
NOTE: For Capped Weighted indexes, the Security Number of shares in the Index increases based on 
the terms of the event. In Non -Market Capitalization Weighted indexes, the security number of shares 
in the index stays unchanged.  
 
  
In addition, for rights issues classified as highly dilutive , where treatment includes the addition of a 
cash and rights line to the Parent Index, a cash and rights line is also simultaneously added to 
Capped Weighted and Non-Market Capitalization Weighted indexes. The above treatment for rights 
issue resulting in calculation of VWF is thus postponed and will occur with the deletion of rights and 
cash line, along with the concurrent increase in the number of shares of the s ecurity.  
3.7 Redemptions  
Redemptions are characterized by a mandatory pro rata buy back of shares held by existing 
shareholders. The market price of the security is adjusted on the ex -date by the redemption 
consideration offered to shareholders in exchange of their shares. The num ber of shares is 
decreased as of the close of the ex -date, accordingly. The post -event free float of the security does 
not change.  
If the redemption is optional for the shareholders, MSCI treats the corporate event as a partial 
buyback. The market price of the security is adjusted on the ex -date similarly to partial tender offers 
(see Appendix V for details on the MSCI policy on Parti al Tender Offers). The number of shares and 
free float of the security may change, whether the bought back shares are cancelled or kept as 
treasury by the company.  
 
 
 
 
 4 Other Events Resulting in Changes in Number of Shares and FIFs 
and/or DIFs  
Changes in number of shares (NOS)/FIF/DIF can also result from other events such as:  
* Primary equity offerings involving the issuance of new shares.  
- Public offering or public placement of new shares placed by underwriters to 
institutional or other non -strategic investors.  
- Primary private placements involving direct placement of new shares by one 
company to another company, an individual investor, or a group of investors. This 
direct placement of shares is generally accomplished without an underwriter.  
* Secondary offerings or block sales that do not involve issuance of new shares but involve 
the distribution of current shareholders' existing shares. Block sales and secondary offerings 
are treated the same way in the MSCI Indexes.  
* Debt -to-equity swaps involving a change in NOS following the conversion of debt into equity 
originally not convertible at the time of issue.  
* Settlement of a derivative contract ; conversions of convertible bonds or other convertible 
instruments, including periodical conversions of preferred stocks and debt -to-equity swaps  
4.1 Implementation Timing  
Primary equity offerings and debt -to-equity swaps that meet the implementation thresholds defined 
in section 4.2 are implemented as of the close of the first trading day of the new shares if all 
necessary information is available at that time. Otherwise, t he event is implemented as soon as 
practicable after the relevant information is made available.  
Secondary offerings/block sales that meet the implementation thresholds defined in section 4.2 are 
implemented at the time of the event with two full business days advance notification provided that 
sufficient post -event information is publicly available.  
Primary equity offerings, block sales, and secondary offerings that qualified for immediate 
implementation and that were not captured at the time of completion are reflected at a following 
regularly scheduled Index Review in accordance with the section 3.1 .7 and 3.1.8 of the MSCI GIMI 
methodology.  
Changes to NOS and FIF/DIF resulting from settlement of a derivative contract, conversions of 
convertible bonds or other convertible instruments, including periodical conversions of preferred 
stocks and debt -to-equity swaps  are implemented at the Index Review following the completion of 
the event and listing of the newly issued shares, if applicable. Such cases will be subject to the rules 
applicable for the Index Reviews in accordance with the section 3.1.7 and 3.1.8 of the MSCI GIMI 
methodology.  
 If a security does not trade for any reason on the as of the close date of the corporate event 
effective date, the event will be implemented on the day after the security resumes trading.  
If a security trades only partially for any reason on the as of the close date of the corporate event 
effective date, MSCI will determine the implementation on a case -by-case basis, considering factors 
such as the time and duration of the trading period(s).  
4.2 Implementation Thresholds  
Changes in NOS/FIF/DIF related to primary equity offerings, secondary offerings/block sales, or 
debt -to-equity swaps originally not convertible at the time of issue representing at least 5%, 10% or 
25% for Standard constituents (as well as securities assigned to S tandard size segment , but having 
failed other investability requirements to be added to the Index), Small Cap constituents (as well as 
securities assigned to Small Cap size segment but  having  failed other investability requirements to 
be added to t he Index) and Micro Cap constituents ( as well as securities which are constituents of 
certain non-GIMI based Indexes ) respectively of the security's pre -event NOS  used in MSCI Indexes , 
are implemented with two full business days advance notification.  
In case of a simultaneous primary offering and private placement, if the combined size of the 
primary offering and private placement represents at least 5%, 10% or 25% of the security's pre -event 
NOS  based on the respective size segment, the corresponding  changes (from both events) in 
NOS/FIF/DIF are implemented with at least two full business days advance notification.  
In case of a simultaneous primary and secondary equity offering, if either the primary or secondary 
equity offering represents at least 5%, 10% or 25% of the security's pre -event NOS  based on 
respective size segment, the corresponding changes (from both events) in NOS/FIF/DIF are 
implemented with two full business days advance notification.  
In cases, where the overallotment is fully exercised and completed simultaneously with the offering 
and the information is publicly disclosed, MSCI considers the overallotment size in assessing if the 
size is above 5%, 10% or 25% of the security's pre-event NOS  based on respective size segment .  
Events that do not meet the above conditions at the time of the event are considered for 
implementation at a subsequent Index Review subject to conditions stated in sections 3.1.7 and 
3.1.8 of the MSCI GIMI Methodology book or at the time of subsequent corporate events outside 
Index Reviews.  
4.3 Country Specifics  
For the below countries, MSCI takes into account the market specifics described below to 
implement primary equity offerings or block sales/secondary offerings in the MSCI Indexes in 
conjunction with the implementation thresholds defined in section 4.2.  
 
 
 
 Country Specifics 
Country  Event Type  Treatment  
Australia  Primary Equity 
Offerings  Changes are implemented once the relevant Appendix 2A filing is made 
publicly available by the company on the Australian Securities Exchange 
(ASX).  
Canada  Primary Equity 
Offerings, 
Secondary 
Offerings, and 
Block sales  Changes resulting from offerings of subscription receipts are implemented 
following the conversion of subscription receipts.  
Changes are implemented on the settlement date of the offering or shortly 
after, when such information is already publicly available.  
Hong Kong  Primary Equity 
Offerings, 
Secondary 
Offerings, and 
Block sales  Changes are implemented once the below relevant filings are made publicly 
available on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange:  
 
* Next day Disclosure Filing for primary equity offerings  
* Disclosure of Interests Filing for secondary offerings and block sales  
* If no disclosure of interests is released, the relevant changes are 
implemented at a subsequent Index Review.  
 
When a secondary offering is followed by a private placement  (for example 
top-up subscription)  of the same size only open to the selling shareholder , 
changes are implemented collectively after completion of both events, if the 
placement size is above implementation threshold.  
India  Primary Equity 
Offerings, 
Secondary 
Offerings, and 
Block sales  Changes are implemented after the complete actual post -event shareholding 
structure is publicly disclosed.  
Japan  Secondary 
Offerings and 
Block Sales  Changes are implemented as of the close of the settlement date, provided 
there is sufficient advance notification.  
Latin America  Primary Equity 
Offerings, 
Secondary 
Offerings, and 
Block sales  Changes are implemented on the settlement date of the offering or shortly 
after, when such information is already publicly available.  
Norway  Primary Equity 
Offerings  Changes resulting from repair issues  or subsequent offerings  are 
implemented after the results of both the offering and the subsequent 
offering are made publicly available.  Only the original offering is considered 
to assess the implementation threshold . MSCI generally does not apply a 
Price Adjustment Factor (PAF) for repair issues in Norway.  
United States  Primary Equity 
Offerings, 
Secondary 
Offerings, and 
Block sales  Changes  are announced at the end of day they are priced through an SEC 
filing or a press release from the Company.  
 
 4.4 Index Review Trea tment  
To reduce the risk of  reverse turnover, for securities that are announced as an addition/deletion or 
size-segment migration within MSCI Indexes at a scheduled Index Review, MSCI may delay the 
implementation of such NOS/FIF /DIF  changes to coincide with the Index Review effective date, 
unless such changes result in an addition/deletion or size -segment migration at the time of the 
event.  
Such changes are evaluated using the thresholds applicable to the larger size -segment as per 
section 4.2. For example: if a Standard Index constituent is announced as a migration to the Small 
Cap Index or vice -versa, thresholds applicable to Standard Index constituents will apply.  
4.5 Pro Forma Float Calculation for Share Placements and Offerings  
The post -event free float is calculated as per appendix VI of the MSCI GIMI Methodology on a case -
by-case basis along with the following assumptions:  
* In general, shares offered in primary equity offerings and secondary offerings are assumed 
to be sold to institutional or other non -strategic investors, unless stated otherwise . If the 
shares are sold to institutional or other non -strategic investors, they are considered as free 
float.  
* Shares issued in debt -to-equity swaps are assumed to be issued to strategic investors, 
unless stated otherwise.  
* If insufficient information is available as to whom the shares are issued to, MSCI may wait 
for post -event float information before announcing changes to the MSCI Indexes.  
MSCI implements pending NOS and/or free float updates simultaneously with the event. Note that if 
the NOS update is smaller than + -1% on a post -event number of shares basis, it will be implemented 
at a subsequent Index Review.  
4.6 Share Placements and Offerings treatment in non -market capitalization 
weighted indexes  
In case of an event that results in a change in number of shares or free float of a security such as a 
share placement, or block sales and secondary offerings, the full or free float adjusted market 
capitalization of the company changes to reflect the impa ct of the event.  For Non -Market 
Capitalization Weighted indexes, this change is offset through the application of Variable Weighting 
Factor (VWF). The following example provides guidance for treatment of share placements and 
offerings within Non -Market Ca pitalization Weighted Indexes.  
Example 1  
EVENT CONSTITUENT:  Company A: INDEX CONSTITUENT  
Company A places 1 million shares to certain Investors. There is a change in NOS and FIF of the 
security as a result of the event.  
Event Effective Date:  February 21, 2017  
 Pre Event Information  
Company A NOS  15,000,000  
Company A FIF   0.7 
Company A CF   0.3 
Company A VWF  1 
 
Post Event Information (Non -Market Capitalization Weighted Indexes)  
Company A NOS  16,000,000  
Company A FIF   0.8 
Company A CF   0.3 
Company A VWF  0.82  
 
Treatment (Non -Market Capitalization Weighted Indexes): As no Inflow is generated, the CF of the 
security will stay unchanged and the VWF of the security is recalculated  
NOTE: Similar treatment is applied for Block Sales and Secondary Offerings.  
  
Pre Event  
Company  Number of 
Shares 
(NOS)  Parent 
Index 
FMCAF 
(FIF)  Constraint 
Factor 
(CF)  Variable 
Weighting 
Factor 
(VWF)  Security 
No. of 
shares in 
Index  Price 
(USD)  Market 
Cap of 
security in 
Index 
(USD)  
A 15,000,000  0.7 0.3 1 3,150,000  10 31,500,000  
Post Event (Non - Market Cap Weighted)  
A 16,000,000  0.8 0.3 0.82  3,150,000  10 31,500,000  
 5 Suspensions, Bankruptcies, Delistings and Country 
Classification Review  
5.1 Suspensions  
For securities that are suspended, MSCI carries forward the market price prior to the suspension 
during the suspension period.  
Corporate events (with or without a PAF) occurring during a suspension period are implemented on 
the day the security resumes trading.  
In case of technical suspension, either ordered by the stock exchange or requested by the company, 
where only a temporary freeze of the market price applies while there is still trading volume activity, 
corporate events without PAF, such as private placements and secondary offerings, are 
implemented on the effective date of the event, whereas corporate events with PAF are implemented 
on the day the technical suspension is lifted.  
5.1.1  Prolonged suspension  
MSCI evaluates securities under prolonged suspension for deletion from the MSCI Equity Indexes on 
a daily basis.  
MSCI defines prolonged suspension as 50 consecutive business days2 of suspension for 
constituents of the GIMI and 100 consecutive business days for constituents of the Global Micro 
Cap Indexes3. The calculation of number of business days of suspension will be based on 
suspension status for the security received from MSCI 's sources on daily basis and not based on 
trading volumes.  
MSCI evaluates and announces the implementation the day following the suspension reaches the 
above mentioned thresholds and implements deletion with two full business days advance 
notification.  
MSCI deletes securities that exceed the above thresholds regardless of the reasons for suspension. 
MSCI deletes securities under prolonged suspension using the lowest system unit (0.00001 of the 
security's price currency), also known as the lowest system p rice.  
MSCI does not revert deletions of securities due to prolonged suspension which have been already 
announced in "confirmed" status, even if the resumption date is announced by the company or if the 
security resumes trading between the announcement date and t he implementation date. In the event 
that securities under prolonged suspension resume trading after they are announced for deletion 
from the MSCI Indexes, MSCI will amend the deletion price from lowest system price to market price 
provided the securities are trading the day prior to the effective date of the deletion.  
 
2 MSCI only considers Monday to Friday business days for the purpose of calculating the days of suspension, even if the securit y's 
exchange is opened on Sunday.  
3 Where there is an overlap between size -segments, MSCI applies the larger size -segment for deletion after 50 business days of 
suspension.  
 Securities (ex -China Equity Universe) which are deleted from the MSCI Indexes due to prolonged 
suspension and subsequently resume trading are treated as new companies for the purpose of 
considering the security for addition to the Indexes at the following Index Review, as described in 
Section 3.1.6 of the MSCI GIMI  Methodology.  
As described in section 2.2.5 of the MSCI GIMI  Methodology, securities in the MSCI China Equity 
Universe are not eligible for inclusion in the Market Investable Equity Universe if the securities have 
been suspended for 50 consecutive days or more in the past 12 months.  
5.2 Price Limit  
In certain countries, stock exchanges apply price limit mechanisms to avoid single stocks to trade 
beyond a certain price range on a daily basis.  
When such volatility occurs, the security's trading status becomes uncertain posing potential 
replicability issues on the implementation date of a corporate event.  
MSCI systematically postpones by two full business days the implementation of selected index 
changes (see below) when the trading is impacted by a price limit mechanism at 12PM time4 of the 
stock exchange where the security is followed.  
Index changes subject to postponement are:  
* Addition to the MSCI Standard Indexes  
* Deletion and Migration from the MSCI Standard Indexes5  
* Spun -off not added to the MSCI Standard Indexes where the parent security is a constituent 
of the MSCI Standard Indexes  
If a confirmed corporate event involving addition/deletion in the Parent Index is postponed due 
to change in market conditions, newly discovered information, etc. after the results of Index 
Review for the Derived Indexes have been announced, the announced changes coinciding the 
Index Review for that security in the Derived Indexes will not be implemented.  
 
The above treatment will continue even if the postponed change is implemented in the Parent 
Index at or prior to the effective date of the Index Review.  
 
If the postponed change is implemented for that security after the effective date of the Index 
Review in the Parent Index, the changes for that security in the Derived Indexes will be based on 
the rules applied to the treatment of securities in the Derived  Indexes outside of the regular Index 
Reviews.  
 
 
4 or at 11AM for stock exchanges that close before 2PM local time.  
5 MSCI does not postpone the implementation of a deletion from an index constituent of the MSCI Standard Indexes related to 
acquisition, delisting or bankruptcy. In these cases, MSCI maintains the announced implementation but will delete the security at the 
price deemed most appropriate (e.g. offer consideration, OTC, lowest system price) instead of the market price.   
 
 5.3 Bankruptcies  
MSCI removes from the MSCI Equity Indexes as soon as possible companies which file for 
bankruptcy or protection from their creditors and/or are suspended and for which a return to normal 
business activity and trading is unlikely in the near future. MSCI tr eats in the same way companies 
that fail stock exchange listing requirements with announcements of delisting from the stock 
exchanges.  
In cases where the company is still trading, MSCI deletes the company on the same day at its last 
trading price, if feasible, and sends an intraday announcement.   
When the primary exchange price is not available, MSCI deletes securities at an over the counter or 
equivalent market price when such a price is available and deemed relevant. If no such price is 
available, the security will be deleted at the lowest system  price.  
If MSCI decides to delete a company at the lowest system price with more than one full business 
day advance notice, the company may be maintained in the MSCI Indexes at the lowest system 
price, instead of carrying forward its last trading price, until its deletion.  
5.4 Delistings from Primary Exchange  
Companies may delist their shares on the primary exchange covered by MSCI but maintain another 
existing listing or start a new listing on a different stock exchange.  
In such cases, MSCI will maintain the company in the MSCI Indexes and change the price source to 
take the price from the other exchange provided that the change of listing does not result in the 
company becoming ineligible for inclusion in the MSCI Indexes . The country classification of that 
company will be reviewed as part of the Index Review following the completion of the change of 
listing.  
5.5 Country Classification Review  
MSCI reviews index constituent's country of classification (COC) at the time of a change of listing, a 
change of country of incorporation as part of a corporate event or a delisting from primary 
exchange. When such changes result in the index constituent b ecoming ineligible for inclusion to the 
MSCI Indexes or if its post -event geographical profile fundamentally differ, MSCI changes the COC 
coinciding with the event implementation.  
When a scenario above does not change the fundamental geographical profile or result in the 
security remaining eligible for inclusion to the MSCI Indexes, MSCI reviews the COC as part of a 
subsequent Index Review following the corporate event, in accordance with the section 3.1.9 of the 
MSCI GIMI methodology.  
Changes that are not part of a corporate event are implemented at relevant Index Reviews in 
accordance with the Appendix III of the MSCI GIMI methodology.  
Note that MSCI reviews the country of classification for all newly listed securities, such as for 
example spun -offs, IPOs, mergers.  
  
 6 IPOs and Other Early Inclusions  
In many cases, newly listed equity securities are considered for inclusion in the MSCI Equity Indexes 
at the time of the Index Reviews. However, in the case of certain MSCI Indexes (including the MSCI 
GIMI), IPOs which are significant in size may be consid ered for an early inclusion (at the time of the 
event, i.e. outside of the Index Reviews), depending on the inclusion criteria applying to the relevant 
MSCI Indexes.  
In order for an IPO to qualify for an early inclusion to the Standard Index, a security must meet the 
index constituent eligibility rules and guidelines described in section 2.2 of the MSCI GIMI 
Methodology with the exception of the length of trading and l iquidity screens and must have a 
company full market capitalization of at least 1.8 times the Interim Market Size -Segment Cutoff and 
free float -adjusted market capitalization of at least 1.8 times one -half of the Interim Market Size -
Segment Cutoff as of th e close of its first or second trading day6.  
Any over -allotment (also called green shoe) publicly announced as exercised prior to MSCI's 
announcement on the first or second trading day is included in the IPO's market capitalizations 
calculations.  
If the decision is made to include an IPO early, the inclusion will be implemented as of the close of 
the security's tenth day of trading. However, in certain cases, another date may be chosen for the 
inclusion to reduce turnover. For example, IPOs for whi ch the effective date of inclusion is either 5 
days before the effective date of a regularly scheduled Index Review or 3 days after, will be made 
effective to coincide with the Index Review.  
For companies trading on a conditional basis (when -issued trading) prior to their unconditional 
trading, MSCI intends to assess the inclusion of the company in the MSCI Indexes on its first day of 
conditional trading.  
Companies which start trading publicly via direct listing route can be considered for early inclusion 
as per the above stated rules only if sufficient information is publicly available in order to accurately 
estimate the security's free float -adjusted mark et capitalization on the security's first or second 
trading day. Otherwise, such securities are considered for inclusion to the MSCI Equity Indexes at a 
subsequent Index Review in accordance with the Index Review rules as per the MSCI GIMI 
methodology.  
Change of listing from an Over -The-Counter (OTC) market to a market segment eligible for inclusion 
to the MSCI Indexes are not considered for early inclusion to the MSCI Indexes at the time of the 
change of listing (except in Vietnam).  
Securities are also considered for early inclusion in other significant cases, including but not limited 
to those resulting from mergers and acquisitions giving rise to a large new company or a large 
primary or secondary public offering of an already liste d security. The size of the offering must 
exceed the IPO threshold of 1.8 times one -half of the Interim Market Size -Segment Cutoff at the 
close of the offering subscription period. In the case of a large public offering (primary or 
secondary), the size of the offering is calculated by multiplying the issue price applicable to 
institutional investors with the number of shares offered. Such cases will be assessed in the same 
way as IPOs of significant size i.e. the security must have a post event company full  market 
 
6 IPOs with a FIF of less than 0.15 would have to meet the same criteria for early inclusion as IPOs with a FIF of 0.15 or high er.   
 capitalization of at least 1.8 times the Interim Market Size -Segment Cutoff and free float -adjusted 
market capitalization of at least 1.8 times one -half of the Interim Market Size -Segment Cutoff as of 
the close of its offering subscription period. MSCI's d ecision will be based on information regarding 
the results of the offering and overallotment (exercised partially or fully), if any, made publicly 
available within up to 2 business days after the close of the subscription period. If the decision is 
made to  early include a security, MSCI will include the security by giving 10 business days' notice.  
For further details on the rules on IPOs and other early inclusions in the MSCI Equity Indexes, please 
refer to the methodology book of each MSCI Index since each MSCI Index has its own separate 
index construction and maintenance methodology. In the case o f the MSCI GIMI , please refer to the 
following sections of the MSCI GIMI  Methodology.  
* Rules on early inclusions of IPOs and other early inclusions  
o See Section "Corporate Events Affecting Non -Index Constituents"  
* Rules on inclusion of new companies to the Market Investable Equity Universes (including IPOs 
that were not added earlier) at Index Reviews  
o See Section "Updating the Market Investable Equity Universes"  
* Rules on inclusion of new securities with a FIF lower than 0.15 (including IPOs that were not 
added earlier) at Index Reviews  
o See Section "Global Minimum Foreign Inclusion Factor Requirement"  
* Rules on additions of significant new companies to the Standard Index (including large IPOs that 
were not added earlier) at Light Rebalancings  
o See Section "Addition of Companies Currently not constituents of the Investable Market 
Indexes during Light Rebalancings"  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 7 Share freeze  
During each Quarterly Index Review, a "share freeze " will be implemented. The share freeze will 
commence 5 business days  (as defined in Sub -section 3.1.9 of the MSCI GIMI methodology)  prior to 
an Index Review effective date. Changes related to corporate events such as secondary offerings, 
private placements, and block sales that would require a NOS/FIF adjustment and have effective 
dates that occur within the share freeze period, will be cumulatively implemented on the effective 
date of the Index Review.  
All M&A activity and corporate events which include stock splits, bonus issues/stock dividends, 
reverse splits or consolidations, rights offerings, share dividend payable events and the array of 
other 'market neutral' corporate events are implemented as pe r usual policy on their actual effective 
dates regardless of the share freeze.   Deferred event implementation due to suspensions will also 
not be affected by the share freeze.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 General Announcement Policy for Corporate Events  
8.1 Client Announcements  
All changes resulting from corporate events affecting constituents of the MSCI Equity Indexes are 
announced to clients prior to their implementation.  
MSCI uses mainly four statuses to announce these changes: "acknowledged", "undetermined", 
"expected" and "confirmed". The sequence of the announcements reflects the different stages of a 
corporate event implementation.  
MSCI also sends an announcement in "Acknowledged " status within five business days following 
the public announcement by the company of the acquisition, if the impact is above one time the 
constituent 's underlying country index Large Cap Cutoff.  
MSCI sends an announcement in "undetermined" status when the effective date is not yet known 
and/or certain aspects of the events are uncertain at least 3 weeks prior to the expected completion 
of the corporate event.  
MSCI sends an announcement in "expected" status at least 10 business days prior to the effective 
date of corporate events to describe the implementation and changes that are intended to be made 
when the effective date is known and when the event is likely to be successful, provided that the 
necessary public information concerning the event is available. Note that announcements in 
"acknowledged", "undetermined" or "expected" status are not final.  
For example, in the situation where new public information would change the outcome and/or the 
likelihood of the corporate event to happen as anticipated, MSCI could revise its implementation and 
change its "expected" announcement to an "undetermined" anno uncement. Similarly, following new 
public information, MSCI can change an "acknowledged" announcement to an "undetermined" 
announcement; or an "undetermined" announcement to an "expected" announcement.  
When the effective date is known and provided that all necessary public information concerning the 
event is available, MSCI sends an announcement in "confirmed" status at least 2 business days prior 
to the effective date.  
For certain events, MSCI only sends "confirmed" announcements, especially due to insufficient or 
lack of publicly available information or late company disclosure.  
In addition to the three statuses described above, in case a "confirmed" announcement needs to be 
amended, MSCI would send a "correction" announcement with a descriptive text announcement to 
provide details about the changes.  
For an exhaustive list of statuses, please refer to the Appendix V of the MSCI Corporate Events 
Methodology book.  
The full list of all new and pending changes is delivered to clients on a daily basis, between 4:00 PM 
and 6:00 PM US Eastern Standard Time (EST) through the Advance Corporate Events (ACE) File.  
In some cases, events are announced with a descriptive text during market hours for same or next 
day implementation. Announcements made by MSCI during market hours are linked to late company 
disclosure of corporate events or unexpected changes to previousl y announced corporate events.  
 When it is not feasible to provide approximately three hours' notice to clients before market closes, 
MSCI may delay the implementation of non -neutral corporate events effective on the next day. An 
intraday text announcement will be sent in such cases.  
MSCI also sends text announcements for corporate events effective within the next 48 hours, except 
for market neutral events for companies listed in the US  and events where PAF of 1 is applied.  
Early deletions of constituents due to bankruptcy or other significant cases are announced as soon 
as practicable prior to their implementation in the MSCI indexes.  
A more descriptive text announcement are sent to clients for significant events according to the 
index specific announcement criteria as described in the respective MSCI Equity Indexes 
Methodology Books.  
For MSCI Global Standard Index constituents, a more descriptive text announcement is sent to 
clients for significant events that meet any of the following criteria:  
* Additions and deletions of constituents.  
* Changes in free float -adjusted market capitalization equal to or larger than USD 5 billion, or with 
an impact of at least 1% of the constituent 's underlying country index.  
MSCI makes additional announcements for events that are complex in nature and for which 
additional clarification could be beneficial.  
For corporate events for which a PAF formula utilizes the ex -price (such as rights issues, spin -offs, 
capital repayments, special dividends, etc.), MSCI calculates the PAF value using the opening market 
price on the ex -date of the event ("Opening PAF") and the PAF value using the closing market price 
of the stock on its ex -date ("Closing PAF"), and announces both via email to clients. The "Closing 
PAF" is used in the MSCI End of Day Indexes calculation.  
For further details, see Appendix V, entitled "Announcement Status and Timing".  
8.2 Public Announcements  
All additions and deletions of constituents of the MSCI Equity Indexes resulting from corporate 
events are publicly announced prior to their implementation.  
Other changes resulting from corporate events that affect constituents of the MSCI Equity Indexes, 
such as changes in the Foreign Inclusion Factor (FIF) and/or in the number of shares of a 
constituent, are not publicly announced but are announced only to c lients.  
If warranted, MSCI reserves the right to make public announcements related to corporate events for 
special cases, such as the ineligibility of a security in the MSCI Equity Indexes.  
The changes are typically announced at least two business days prior to events becoming effective 
in the indexes. Public announcements are a summary of the "confirmed" announcements that are 
made to clients. Public announcements are sent shortly before a " confirmed" client announcement 
is made.  
MSCI posts the announcements on its web site, www.msci.com , and on Bloomberg page MSCN. In 
addition, announcements are posted on Reuters public pages MSCIA for MSCI Global Standard Index 
constituents and MSCI Domestic Standard Index constituents.  
  
 
 
 
Appendices  
  
 Appendix I: PAF Formulas and Definitions  
Event Type  Comments  PAF = [Cum Price Formula] / [Ex Price Formula]  
Capital 
Repayment   [P(t) + Cash] / [P(t)]  
Consolidation   [Shares Issued] / [Shares Before]  
Conversion  Exchange of Shares (PAF 
applied for historical link 
when terms are <> 1for 1)  [Other Asset Issued] / [Shares Before]  
Merger  Exchange of Shares (PAF 
applied for historical link 
when terms are <> 1for 1)  [Other Asset Issued] / [Shares Before]  
Merger  Exchange of Cash and 
Shares  [(P(t) * Other Asset Issued + Cash) / Shares Before] 
/ [P(t)]  
Reverse Split   [Shares Issued] / [Shares Before]  
Redemption   [((Shares Before - Shares Acquired) * P(t) + Shares 
Acquired * Offer P) / Shares Before] / [P(t)]  
Rights Issue  Right of New Underlying 
Shares  If Issue P is < P(t) then  
[(P(t) * (Shares Before + Shares Issued) - Shares 
Issued * Issue P) / Shares Before] / [P(t)]  
else PAF=1  
or for highly dilutive or large rights issues  
If Issue P is < P(t) then  
[P(t) + Right P(t)] / [P(t)]  
else PAF=1  
Rights Issue  Right of New Underlying 
Shares Not Entitled to 
Forthcoming Dividend  If Forthcoming Gross Dividend is available and Issue 
P >= [P(t) - Forthcoming Gross Dividend] then 
PAF=1  
or 
if Forthcoming Gross Dividend is available and Issue 
P < [P(t) - Forthcoming Gross Dividend] then  
[(P(t) * (Shares Before + Shares Issued) - Shares 
Issued * Issue P - Shares Issued * Forthcoming 
Gross Dividend) / Shares Before] / [P(t)]  
or 
if Forthcoming Gross Dividend is not available and 
Issue P >= P(t) then PAF=1  
or 
if Forthcoming Gross Dividend is not available and 
Issue P < P(t) then  
 Event Type  Comments  PAF = [Cum Price Formula] / [Ex Price Formula]  
[(P(t) * (Shares Before + Shares Issued) - Shares 
Issued * Issue P) / Shares Before] / [P(t)]  
Rights Issue  Right of New Underlying 
Shares with Another Asset 
(bond, warrant, preferred, 
etc.) attached  If Right P(t) is available then  
[P(t) + Right per Share P(t)] / [P(t)]  
or  
If Right P(t) is not available and Issue P is < P(t) then 
[(P(t) * (Shares Before + Shares Issued) - Shares 
Issued * Issue P) / Shares Before] / {P(t)]  
or  
if Right P(t)  is not available and Issue P >= P(t) then 
PAF=1  
Rights Issue  Right of Another Type of 
Asset (bond, warrant, 
preferred, etc.)  if Right P(t) is available then  
[P(t) + Right per Share P(t)] / [P(t)]  
or 
if Right P(t)  is not available then PAF=1  
Rights Issue  Right of Shares in Another 
Listed Security  If Issue P < Other Security P(t) then  
[P(t) + (Other Security P(t) - Issued P) * Other 
Security Shares Issued / Shares Before] / [P(t)] else 
PAF=1  
Special 
Dividend  PAF is applied for special 
dividends when the impact 
of dividend on the price on 
the cum date is greater 
than or equal to 5%.  If impact of Special Div on P(t -1) >=5%, then [P(t) + 
Special Div] / [P(t)]  
Spin -off Spun -off traded on the ex -
date  [P(t) + Spun Off P(t) * Spun Off Shares Issued / 
Shares Before] / [P(t)]  
Spin -off Spun -off NOT traded on the 
ex-date (creation of a 
'detached ' security)  [P(t-1)] / [P(t)]  
Split   [Shares Issued] / [Shares Before]  
Stock  Stock Dividend / Bonus / 
Scrip Issue / Stock  [Shares Issued + Shares Before] / [Shares Before]  
Stock  Stock Dividend Not Entitled 
to Forthcoming Dividend  [[(Shares Issued + Shares Before) * P(t) - (Shares 
Issued * Forthcoming Gross Cash Dividend)] / 
Shares Before] / [P(t)]  
Stock  Distribution of Another 
Type of Asset (bond, 
warrant, preferred, etc.)  If Other Asset P(t) is not available then PAF=1  
else 
[(P(t) * Shares Before + Other Asset P(t) * Other 
Asset Issued) / Shares Before] / [P(t)]  
 Event Type  Comments  PAF = [Cum Price Formula] / [Ex Price Formula]  
Stock  Distribution of New 
Underlying Shares with 
Warrants attached  If Other Asset P(t) is not available then  
[Shares Issued + Shares Before] / [Shares Before]  
 else 
[(P(t) * (Shares Issued + Shares Before) + Other 
Asset P(t) * Other Asset Issued)/ Shares Before] / 
[P(t)]  
 
Terms/abbreviations  Definitions  
Cash  Amount shareholders are entitled to  
Cum Date  Business Day prior to the ex -date  
Ex-Date  Day on which a security is traded without a previously declared 
dividend, distribution, or other right  
Pay-date  First trading day of new shares resulting from the rights issue  
Issue P  Issue price  
Offer P  Offer price  
Other Asset Issued  Number of other asset distributed (e.g. warrant, convertible bond)  
Other Asset P(t)  Closing price of the other asset on the ex -date  
P(t) Closing price on the ex -date  
P(t-1) Closing price on the cum date (ex -date -1) 
Premium  [(Offer price - P(t-1)) / P(t -1)] * 100  
Right P(t)  Closing right price on the ex -date  
Intrinsic value of Rights  [Closing price of security * Shares Issued - Issue P * Shares Issued)] / [ 
Shares Before ]  
Shares Before  Number of shares shareholders need to hold before the event  
Shares Issued  Number of shares distributed  
Shares Acquired  Number of shares acquired  
Forthcoming Gross 
Dividend  Gross d ividend per share paid by the company following another 
event. In certain cases of rights issues and stock dividends, the newly 
issued shares are not entitled to the dividend which is ex after the 
rights issue / stock dividend ex -date.  
Special Div  Amount shareholders are entitled to  
Spun Off P(t)  Closing price of the spun off security on the ex -date  
Spun Off Shares Issued  Number of spun off security shares distributed  
 Appendix II: Implementation Dates for Corporate Events  
MSCI uses several terms to specify the timing of corporate events implementation:  
As of the close of date (t -1) indicates that the changes are implemented after the close on day t -1. 
For example, if a security is deleted as of the close of t -1, the security still appears in the index on the 
day t -1. 
Effective date/Ex -date (t) indicates the date on which the changes are reflected. For example, if a 
security is deleted as of the close of t -1, the security no longer appears in the index on the effective 
date (t). It also indicates the date on which a sec urity is traded without a previously declared 
dividend, distribution, or other right.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix III: Clarification Regarding Effective Dates in Index 
email Announcements  
The effective date in header of the Index email announcement means that all related changes are 
reflected in the indexes as of the open of the specified date, unless indicated otherwise in the text of 
the announcement. This is the case for all changes (NOS, FIF, VIF, addition, deletion, etc. ) 
implemented as part of corporate events or Index Reviews.  
For events such as rights issues, stock dividends or splits, where PAFs are applied on the ex date (t), 
the effective date in the header of the Index email announcement represents the ex -date of the event 
(and not the effective date of the NOS changes asso ciated to the event). The associated NOS 
changes are implemented as of the close of that date i.e . "as of the close of t" (effective t+1).  
All the details of the event implementation, including all the implementation dates (i.e. "as of the 
close of" date and effective date), are provided in the descriptive text, below the header.  
For more details regarding "as of the close of ", "ex-date " or "effective date ", please refer to Appendix 
II entitled "Implementation Dates for Corporate Events " in the MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
Book.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix IV: Corporate Events Implementation in Sunday 
Intermediary Index Calculation for Monday - Friday Index 
Calculation methodology  
A selected list of MSCI Indexes is calculated on Sundays to reflect the performance of the markets 
open on this day. The Sunday index performances capture the price changes and reflect corporate 
events effective on these days. In case of corporate events occ urring on Sundays and where a PAF 
is needed, the PAF is applied to the market price of the security on Sunday and Monday. If the 
security does not trade on Monday, the Sunday closing market price is carried forward to Monday, 
including the PAF.  
Changes in the security's number of shares, FIFs and/or DIFs due to corporate events occurring on 
Sundays are implemented as of the close of Monday, regardless of whether the corporate event 
requires the application of a PAF on Sunday or not.  
For details on the Sunday Index Calculation Methodology, refer to Appendix I of the  MSCI Index 
Calculation Methodology . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix V: Announcement Status and Timing  
All changes resulting from corporate events affecting constituents of the MSCI Equity Indexes are 
announced prior to their implementation. The changes can have the following status:  
Status  Description  Timing  
Acknowledged  The "Acknowledged " status is used to indicate that 
MSCI is aware of an upcoming event. With this status, 
MSCI does not disclose any details of the treatment of 
the corporate event.  
The "Acknowledged " status is used for all corporate 
events having impact of above 1 time constituent 's 
underlying country index Large Cap Cutoff. The 
examples of event types include acquisitions, mergers, 
spin offs, rights issues, public offerings, private 
placements etc.  
An "Acknowledged" won't be sent for events like block 
sales, secondary offerings, stock splits, consolidations, 
stock dividends, buybacks, partial acquisitions etc. An 
"Expected " or "Undetermined " announcement will be 
sent for these events.  
For IPOs, a "Confirmed " announcement is sent.  Within 5 business days of 
the actual event 
announcement by the 
company.  
Undetermined  The "Undetermined " status is used when the event is 
conditional upon uncertain events (e.g.: the outcome of 
the tender offer is uncertain), or the effective date is not 
known. MSCI describes the event and how it intends to 
implement it if and when the event becomes effectiv e. Undetermined 
announcements are sent 
when there is some 
uncertainty that the event 
will take place.  
Expected  MSCI sends an "expected" announcement to describe 
the implementation and changes that are intended to be 
made when the effective date is known and when MSCI 
considers that an event is likely to be successful, 
provided that the necessary public information 
concerning the event is available  Generally 10 business 
days before the effective 
date.  
Confirmed  The "Confirmed " status is used when all details for the 
implementation of the security 's change have been 
finalized.  Confirmed 
announcement is 
generally sent at least 2 
days before the effective 
date.  
Implemented  The "Implemented " status is used when the change has 
been implemented in the index.  The event remains in the 
Advance Corporate 
Events (ACE) file 2 days 
after its effective date.  
Canceled  The "Canceled " status is used when a previously 
announced event does not occur.  As early as practicable.  
 Status  Description  Timing  
Correction  The "Correction " status is used when a modification 
needs to be made to an event that was previously 
"Confirmed".  As early as practicable.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Appendix VI: Additional Corporate Events Rules Applying to the 
MSCI GIMI  
Corporate events can have different implications depending on the specificities for constructing and 
maintaining each MSCI Index. Such specificities, if any, are described in the respective methodology 
book of each MSCI Index.  
Corporate events rules used for the maintenance of the MSCI GIMI  include the rules described in this 
methodology book as well as the rules described in Section 3 "Maintaining the MSCI Global 
Investable Market Indexes" of the MSCI GIMI  Methodology. Please refer to the following sections, 
among others, of the MSCI GIMI  Methodology.  
* Changes in FIF, NOS and GICS due to corporate events  
o See Section 3. 2 (changes made at the time of the event) and Section 3.1 (changes made 
at Index Reviews)  
* Size and style segment reviews due to corporate events  
o See Section 3. 2 (at the time of the event) as well as Section 3.1 (at Index Reviews)  
* Deletions of securities from the MSCI GIMI Indexes due to corporate events  
o See Section 3. 2 
* Announcement policy  
o See Section 3. 3 
For details on rules for the treatment of IPOs in the MSCI GIMI , see Section 6 of this methodology 
book "IPOs and Other Early Inclusions".  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Appendix V II: Implementation for stock connect A -Share 
securities  
MSCI announced the conclusions from its recent consultation with the investment community on 
specific topics in the context of the upcoming partial inclusion of China A shares in the MSCI 
Emerging Markets Index. The conclusion of the consultation results i n modifications to the 
methodology, in particular rules related to treatment of suspended securities and implementation of 
corporate events in case of "Stock Connect" holidays.  
For more information, please refer to the consultation conclusion documents available at  
https://www.msci.com/index -consultations . 
Ongoing Event Related Changes  
The ongoing event -related changes to the Stock Connect A -share  security primarily follow the MSCI 
GIMI Methodology  and the MSCI Corporate Events Methodology. In order to align all Indexes related 
to China A Share component, corporate actions will be implemented on both onshore security and 
the stock -connect security, even if the corporate action is not applicable for one of the two 
securities. However, a Price Adjustment Factor (PAF), if required, would only be applied to the 
security for which the corporate action is applicable.  
Implementation of Corporate Events except Early Inclusions  
In order to reflect accessibility of securities trading on Stock Connect and keep the MSCI Index es 
replicable, methodologies need to be enhanced in order to more accurately reflect the investment 
process of Stock Connect investors , especially for cases when Stock Connect is closed but the 
onshore Chinese domestic market is trading.   
Below is the treatment of corporate events in case where Stock Connect is closed on the 
implementation date:  
1) Market neutral Events for China A Stock Connect securities:  
Market neutral events will be implemented on ex -date for Stock Connect A -share  and onshore 
securities irrespective of holiday. In this case , MSCI implementation date  for both Onshore and 
Stock Connect A -share  securities will be same. ( For e xample  but not limited to : Stock Dividend, Split, 
Consolidation, PAF due to buyback/Partial Acquisition, rights issue of non -trading asset , etc. ) 
 
2) Non-Market neutral Events for China A Stock Connect securities:  
3-for-10 stock dividend - Ex on July 28  
 25-July  28-July (Connect holiday and Onshore 
Trading)  
 Onshore -Index, Stock Connect -
Index, Onshore - Portfolio and 
Stock Connect - Portfolio  Onshore -Index 
and Stock 
Connect - Index  Onshore - 
Portfolio  Stock Connect - 
Portfolio  
Price  2.2 1.69  1.69  1.69  
PAF - 1.3 - - 
NOS  1000  1000  1300  1300  
MCap  2200  2200  2200  2200  
 
 a. Events with Price Adjustment Factor (PAF) : The event implementation will be postponed to 
the next Stock Connect trading day . Price on the ex -date will be  carried forward for the Stock 
connect A -share securities . In this case, MSCI implementation date for both Onshore and 
Stock C onnect A-share securities  will be d ifferent. (For example but not limited to: Rights 
issue of trading asset, Spin off, Merger, Conversion, redemption, special dividends above 5%, 
capital repayment, etc.)  
 
b. Events without any Price Adjustment Factor (PAF): The implementation will either be 
postponed or preponed. In this case , MSCI implementation date  for both Onshore 
and Stock Connect A -share  securities will be same. ( For e xample  but not limited to: 
Delisting, Private placement, Acquisition , deletion due to prolonged suspension  etc.)  
3) IPOs  
"A shares " IPOs are only considered for inclusion at subsequent  Index Review s following the 
event.  
4) Other Early Inclusions  
Other early inclusion of A shares (For example but not limited to spin off, merger, acquisition) 
will only be considered if the eligibility of Stock Connect is announced on or before the day of 
MSCI sending "Confirmed" corporate event announcement for the relevant event. Otherwise, 
such securities will be c onsidered for index inclusion at subsequent Index Reviews.  
5) Cash Dividend Reinvestment for China A Stock Connect Securities  
In case where Stock Connect has trading holiday on the ex -date of a dividend but the onshore 
Chinese domestic market is trading, MSCI will postpone the reinvestment of the dividend to the 
next Stock Connect trading day for Stock connect A -share securities. However, MSCI will 
continue to use the ex -date market price for the Stock connect A -share securities from exchange 
for index calculations.  
 
 
 Appendix VIII: Policy Regarding Trading Suspensions in the 
MSCI Derived Indexes during the Index Reviews  
 
The below section refers to indexes constructed from a parent index that follows GIMI methodology 
but apply an alternative weighting methodology and/or additional screening methodology (Derived 
Indexes), such as MSCI Factor, ESG or Capped Indexes.    
 
The treatment for securities suspended two days prior to effective date of the Derived Index Review 
is as follows.    
 
TREATMENT OF ADDITIONS TO DERIVED INDEXES  
 
When the implementation of an addition to a Parent Index is postponed, the implementation of the 
addition to an index derived from that Parent Index will also be postponed. When the addition is 
implemented in the Parent Index after the security resumes tra ding, the security will be considered 
for inclusion in the Derived Index based on the rules applied to additions outside Index Reviews for 
that Derived  index. Those rules are described in the respective index methodologies.  
 
In case of a suspension of a security that has been identified as an addition to a Derived Index at the 
time of the Index Review without being an addition to the Parent Index, the addition will not be 
implemented and the inclusion of the security will be r e-evaluated at the next Index Review.  
 
TREATMENT OF DELETIONS FROM DERIVED INDEXES  
 
When the implementation of a deletion from a Parent Index is postponed, the implementation of the 
deletion from the indexes derived from that Parent Index will also be postponed. For Derived Indexes 
where a constraint factor is applied on the weight (i.e. indexes that are not free float -adjusted market 
cap weighted), the security will be maintained with the same constraint factor that was applied prior 
to the Index Review. When the deletion is implemented in the Parent Index after the security resumes 
tradi ng, the security will be simultaneously deleted from the Derived Index.  
 
In the case of a suspension of a security that has been identified as a deletion from a Derived Index 
as part of the Index Review, without being a deletion from the Parent Index, the deletion will not be 
implemented and the deletion of the security will be  re-evaluated at the next Index Review. For 
Derived Indexes where a constraint factor is applied to the weight (i.e. indexes that are not free float -
adjusted market cap weighted), the security will be maintained with the same constraint factor as 
prior to the Index Review.  
 
TREATMENT OF SECURITIES WITH CONSTRAINT FACTOR CHANGE  
 
In case of a suspension of a security where a constraint factor change has been identified as part of 
the Index Review, the change will be reverted and the constraint factor will remain constant until the 
following Index Review.  
 
TREATMENT FOR CAPPED INDEXES  
 
Note that if, as a result of not implementing a change on a security suspended in an MSCI 10/40 
Index, MSCI 25/50 Index or an MSCI 35/65 Index, the Index were not to be compliant with the 
 concentration constraints described in the MSCI 10/40, MSCI 25/50 and MSCI 35/65 Index 
methodologies, respectively, the change will be implemented regardless of the suspension.  
 
The above treatment is applicable to all MSCI Indexes at their regular rebalancing schedule, 
including indexes which follow a rebalancing schedule that does not coincide with the MSCI 
Quarterly Index Review dates.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix IX: Corporate Events Implementation in Sunday - 
Thursday Index Calculation methodology  
MSCI also provides a different series of Indexes, that are calculated from Sunday to Thursday and 
reflect the performances of markets that follow a Sunday to Thursday trading calendar. These 
Indexes are not calculated on Friday and Saturday.  
 
The Sunday index performances capture the price changes and reflect corporate events effective on 
this day.  In case of corporate events occurring on Sundays and where a Price Adjustment Factor 
(PAF) is needed, the PAF is applied to the market price of the security on Sunday.  
Changes in the security's number of shares, FIFs and/or DIFs , Additions/deletions to and from Index  
due to corporate events can be  implemented as of the close of Sunday, regardless of whether the 
corporate event requires the application of a PAF or not.  
For evaluating deletion under prolonged suspension, MSCI calculates the thresholds as described 
under Section 5.1.1 considering Sunday to Thursday as business days.  
For details on the Sunday - Thursday Index Calculation Methodology, refer to Appendix XII of the  
MSCI Index Calculation Methodology . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Change s to the Methodology Book  
The following sections have been modified since May 2013:  
May 2013 updates:  
Section 2.1.4.2: Dutch Auction offer  
* update for changes in NOS less than 5%  
Section 2.3: Conversion of share classes  
* update of the paragraph  
Section 3.2.1: Stock dividends: distribution of new underlying shares  
* treatment of stock dividend of treasury shares  
Section 3.3: Capital repayments  
*  clarification on tax treatment  
Section 4.1.1.2: Share placements and offerings: country specifics  
*  update on forward sale agreements, Japanese secondary offerings and HK & China block 
sales  
Section 4.3: Optional dividends  
* update on treatment in countries ex -US 
 
August 2013 updates:  
Section 2.1.4.2: Dutch Auction offer  
* wording  
Section 2.3: Conversion of share classes  
* wording  
Section 3.2.1: Distribution of new underlying shares  
* wording  
Appendix III: Corporate Events occurring on Sundays  
* removed mention of the treatment of Saturdays  
 
November 2013 updates:  
Section 2.1: Treatment of M&As in the MSCI Universe  
* updates on page 6, 7, 8 and 9  
Section 3.2: Stock Dividends  
* update on page 15  
Section 4.1.1: Implementation of Share Placements and Offerings in the MSCI Universe  
* update on page 21 (+footnote) and page 22  
Section 5: Suspensions, Delisting and Bankruptcies  
* update page 24 -25 
Appendix V: Clarification Regarding Effective Dates in Index email Announcements  
* updates  
Appendix VI: Announcement Status and Timing  
* update  
 
February 2014 updates:  
Section 2.3: Conversion of Share Classes  
 * treatment for China securities  
Section 3.3: Capital Repayments  
* update  
Section 3.4: Special Cash Dividends  
* update  
 
May 2014 updates:  
Section 2.1.4: Partial tender offers and buyback offers  
* update  
Section 4.1.1.2: Country specifics  
* Treatment of primary and secondary equity offerings  
Section 4.3: Optional Dividends  
* Treatment for Hong Kong optional dividends  
 
August 2014 updates:  
Section 2.1: Treatment of M&As in the MSCI Universe  
* update of the advance notice  
Section 3.5: Optional Dividends  
* treatment for the Netherlands  
Section 5: Suspensions, Bankruptcies and Delisting  
* update for Bankruptcies  
Section 7.1: Client Announcements  
* clarification of minimum advance notice for non -neutral events  
Appendix I: PAF Formulas and Definitions  
* update for very highly dilutive rights issue  
Appendix III: Clarification Regarding Effective Dates in Index email Announcements  
* update  
 
November 2014 updates:  
Section 2.1.3: Tender Offers  
* clarification of deletion rules for existing constituents  
Section 2.6.2: Reverse Spinoffs  
* clarification of reverse spinoffs implementation  
Section 3.6.3: Number of Shares, FIF and/or DIF Changes Following Rights for New Underlying 
Shares  
* clarification for fully underwritten rights issues offered at a premium to market price  
 
December 2014 update:  
Section 2.1: Treatment of M&As in the MSCI Universe  
* Canadian M&As  
 
January 2015 updates:  
Section 5: Suspensions, Bankruptcies and Delistings  
 * updates including treatment of prolonged suspensions  
Section 3: Highly dilutive or large rights issues  
* updates including new treatment of highly dilutive or large rights issues  
 
February 2015 updates:  
Section 4: Other events Resulting in Changes in Number of Shares and FIFs and/or DIFs  
* updates including new treatment of block sales and secondary offerings (outside the US)  
Section 3: Highly dilutive or large rights issues  
* updates in treatment of highly dilutive or large rights issues  
 
March 2015 update:  
Section 4: Other events Resulting in Changes in Number of Shares and FIFs and/or DIFs  
* clarification and updates including new treatment of block sales and secondary offerings 
(outside the US)  
 
May 2015 update:  
Section 2.5.1: Treatment when spun off trades on ex -date  
* clarification for cases subject to withholding tax  
 
August 2015 update:  
Section 4.1.2.1 General Treatment  
* clarification for block sales and secondary offerings not considered for immediate 
implementation  
 
November 2015 update:  
Section 1 Introduction  
* clarification for country specific treatment  
 
February 2016 update:  
Section 2.1 Treatment of M&As in the MSCI Universe  
* clarification of implementation criteria for M&As  
 
May 2016 updates:  
Section 2: Mergers & Acquisition (M&As)  
* clarification for general treatment  
Section 2.1: Merger and Acquisitions via Mutual Agreement  
* treatment of US acquisitions via agreement  
* general clarification  
Section 2.2: Tender Offers  
* treatment of US tender offers  
* general clarification  
Section 4.1.1.1: General Treatment  
 * treatment for US securities  
Section 4.1.1.2: Country Specifics  
* treatment for US securities  
Section 4.1.2.2: Country Specifics  
* treatment for US securities  
 
August 2016 updates:  
Section 4.1.1.2: Country Specifics  
* clarification for Canadian offerings treatment  
Section 8.1: Client Announcements  
* clarification for general treatment  
* advance notification for announcement in undetermined status  
Section 7: Share Freeze  
* New section  
 
September 2016 updates:  
Section 2.7: Mergers & Acquisition (M&As)  
* addition of treatment in capped weighted and non -market capitalization weighted indexes  
Section 2.8.3: Spin -Offs  
* addition of treatment in capped weighted and non -market capitalization weighted indexes  
 
November 2016 updates:  
Section 2.3.1: Acquisition of Listed Non -Index Constituents Securities  
* clarification of the implementation threshold for Micro caps  
Section 2.4.2: Dutch Auction Offer  
* clarification of the implementation threshold for Micro caps  
Section 2.4.3: Split off/Exchange offer  
* clarification of treatment of split off  
Section 2.8.1.1: US and Canada Specific Treatment  
* clarification of announcement policy  
Section 2.9.1: Mergers  
* clarification of factors of continuation  
Section 3.2.2: Distribution of Other Type of Assets  
* clarification of distribution of listed assets with late pay date  
Section 3.6.2: Number of Shares, FIF and/or DIF Changes Following Rights for New Underlying 
Shares  
* clarification of the implementation threshold for Micro caps  
Section 4.2: Debt -to-Equity Swaps  
* clarification of the implementation threshold for Micro caps  
 
February 2017 updates:  
Section 5.3: Delisting from Primary Exchange  
* clarification of the current treatment  
Section 5.4: Country Classification Review  
 * new section clarifying current treatment  
 
May 2017 updates:  
Section 2.4.1.1 : Results of Partial Tender Offers and Buyback Offers  
* clarification of the current treatment  
Section 2.5 : Conversion of Share Classes  
* clarification of the current treatment for periodical conversions  
Section 3.6.3.1: Rights Issue Offered at a Discount to Market Price  
* clarification of the treatment of rights issues where strategic shareholders do not intend to 
subscribe pro -rata 
 
June 2017 updates:  
Section 1 - Introduction  
Section 2.7:  Mergers and Acquisitions Treatment in Capped Weighted and Non -Market 
Capitalization Weighted Indexes  
* Glossary of terms  
* Examples of treatments in capped weighted and non -market capitalization weighted indexes  
Section 2.8.4:  Spin -off Treatment in Capped Weighted and Non -Market Capitalization Weighted 
Indexes  
* Examples of treatments in capped weighted and non -market capitalization weighted indexes  
Section 3.6.6:  Rights Issue Treatment in Capped Weighted and Non -Market Capitalization Weighted 
Indexes   
* New section with example of treatments in capped weighted and non -market capitalization 
weighted indexes  
Section 4.3:  Share Placement and Offerings Treatment in Non -Market Capitalization Weighted 
Indexes   
* New section with example of treatments in non -market capitalization weighted indexes.  
 
August 2017 updates:  
Section 2.2.5 : Announcement Policy   
* clarification of the communication of tender offers with multiple offer periods  
Section 2.4 : Partial Tender Offers and Buyback Offers  
* clarification of the current treatment for periodical conversions  
Section 2.7:  Mergers and Acquisitions Treatment in Capped Weighted and Non -Market 
Capitalization Weighted Indexes  
* Additional examples of treatments in capped weighted and non -market capitalization 
weighted indexes  
Section 2.8.3: Reverse Spinoffs  
* clarification of the current treatment for reverse spinoff where the spun -off does not trade on 
the ex -date  
Section 2.8.4:  Spin -off Treatment in Capped Weighted and Non -Market Capitalization Weighted 
Indexes.  
* Additional examples of treatments in capped weighted and non -market capitalization 
weighted indexes  
 Section 3.6.3.1: Rights Issue Offered at a Discount to Market Price  
* clarification of the treatment when treasury shares are not entitled to a rights issues  
Section 4: Other Events Resulting in Changes in Number of Shares and FIFs and/or DIFs  
* clarification of the treatment when a security does not trade on the as of the close date of a 
corporate event effective date  
 
October 2017 updates:  
Section 2: Mergers & Acquisitions, 3.5 Optional Dividends, 3.6.2 Rights Issues Offered at a Premium 
to Market Price and 4. Other Events Resulting in Changes in Number of Shares and FIFs and/or DIFs  
* number of shares updates smaller than + -1% are not implemented at the time of the event 
but at a subsequent Index Review   
Section 3.4 : Special Cash Dividends   
* new treatment of special cash dividends becoming smaller than 5% after being announced in 
"confirmed" status.  
Section 3.6 : Rights Issues and 3.6.3 Number of Shares, FIF and/or DIF Changes Following Rights for 
New Underlying Shares  
* number of shares change resulting from rights issues are re -assessed on the cum -date   
 
November 2017 updates:  
Section 2.1.1 : Implementation Timing   
* clarification of the implementation timing for acquisitions via scheme of arrangement ex US 
and Canada.  
Section 2.8.2 : Spun -off Not Trading on the Ex -date  
* clarification of the current treatment of detached securities  
Section 5.1.1.1 : China Specific Treatment    
* new treatment for prolonged suspension   
Section 6: IPOs and Other Early Inclusions   
* clarification of early inclusions following large offerings   
Section 8.1: Client Announcements  
* new treatment for "acknowledged" announcement status   
Appendix 6: Announcement Status and Timing  
* new treatment for "Acknowledged" announcement status  
Appendix 8: Implementation for Stock Connect A -Share Securities  
* new appendix  
 
January 2018 updates:  
Section 2.2.7 :  Tender Offers with Tendered Line of Shares Trading Separately   
* new treatment for target security's market price switch between non -tendered shares to 
tendered share market price  
Section 2.8.1: Treatment When Spun Off Trades on Ex -date  
* new window to trigger the addition of a "detached" security when the pay -date is later than 
the ex -date   
Section 3.2.2 : Distribution of Other Type of Assets  
 * new window to trigger the addition of a "detached" security when the pay -date is later than 
the ex -date   
 
February 2018 updates:  
Introduction  
* clarification of corporate events treatment for indexes created as a combination of different 
component indexes  
Section 2.2.7: Tender Offers with Tendered Line of Shares Trading Separately  
* clarification of conditions for a switch of a security's market price from non -tendered shares 
to tendered shares  
Section 2.4.1.1: Results of Partial Tender Offers and Buyback Offers  
* clarification for implementation of results of buyback tender offers in India  
Section 3.6.4: Rights for Other Types of Assets  
* clarification of adjustments of rights of other type of assets when the rights do not trade on 
the ex -date  
Appendix I: PAFs Formulas and Definitions  
* clarification of PAFs for right of new underlying shares with another asset  
* clarification of PAFs for right of another type of asset  
 
March 2018 updates:  
Introduction  
* clarification of corporate events treatment when securities trade at their price limit on the ex -
date/effective date of a corporate event  
Section 2.3.1 : Acquisitions of Unlisted Securities   
o treatment of acquisitions of unlisted securities   
Section 2.3.2 : Acquisitions of Listed Non -Index Constituents Securities   
* change of implementation thresholds at the time of the event  
Section 2.4.3 : Results of Partial Tender Offers and Buybacks Offers   
* change of implementation thresholds at the time of the event  
Section 3.6.3.2 : Rights Issues Offered at a Premium to Market Price   
* change of implementation thresholds at the time of the event  
Section 4.1.1.1 : General Treatment   
* change of implementation thresholds at the time of the event  
* clarification of treatment for public and secondary offerings announced simultaneously  
* clarification of treatment for public offering and private placement announced 
simultaneously  
Section 4.1.1.2 : Country Specifics   
* change of implementation thresholds at the time of the event for US, Latin American, 
Canadian, Australian, and Norwegian securities  
* change of implementation timing and thresholds for Canadian subscription receipts  
* clarification of treatment of top -up subscription in Hong -Kong  
Section 4.2 : Debt -To-Equity Swaps   
* change of implementation thresholds at the time of the event for conversion of originally 
non-convertible debt  
Section 5.1.1:  Prolonged Suspension   
 * change of treatment for prolonged suspension of all index constituents ex -China Equity 
Universe    
 
May 2018 updates:  
Section 2.2.7 : Tender offers with tendered line of shares trading separately   
* clarification of the second condition   
Section 2.7:  Mergers and Acquisitions Treatment in Capped Weighted and Non -Market 
Capitalization Weighted Indexes  
* Addition of example 8 for partial acquisitions  
Section 3.6 : Rights issues  
* clarification of the treatment of downward migrations  
Section 6 : IPOS and Other Early Inclusions  
* clarification of the treatment of over -allotment  
 
August 2018 updates:  
Section 3.3 : Capital Repayments   
* Update in language  
Section 3.4 :  Special Cash Dividends  
* Update in language  
Section 3.7 : Redemptions  
* Update in language  
 
November 2018 updates:  
Section 2.5: Conversions of Share Classes   
* new section structure and clarifications of the treatment of conversions  
Section 3.6.5 :  Highly Dilutive or Large Rights Issues  
* clarification regarding the timing of upward migrations  
Section 6 : IPOs and Other Early Inclusions  
* clarification of the direct listing route treatment  
 
December 2018 updates:  
Section 2.1.2: Deletion Price   
* new price to maintain already delisted index constituents in the MSCI Indexes  
Section 2.1.5: Canada Specific Treatment   
* new methodology  
Section 2.8.1: Treatment When Spun off Trades on Ex -date   
* clarification of the treatment of detached security for delayed pay date spinoffs  
Section 3.6.3.4: Rights Issues with Incomplete Information on the Ex -Date   
* new methodology  
Section 3.5.1 :  US Specific Treatment  
* new methodology for US optional dividends  
 
January 2019 updates:  
 Section 4.1.1.1: General Treatment  
* clarification on implementation thresholds at the time of the event  
Section 4.1.2.1 : General Treatment  
* clarification on implementation thresholds at the time of the event  
 
February 2019 updates:  
Section 2.1.4:  US Specific Treatment   
* clarification on implementation timing  
Section 2.3.2:  Acquisition of Listed Non -Index Constituents Securities by Index Constituents 
Securities   
* clarification of the current treatment  
 
May 2019 updates:  
Section 2.1.6:  United Kingdom Specific Treatment   
* clarification on implementation when target securities move to SETSqx trading service  
Section 2.2.3: Deletion Timing  
* clarification on tender offers implementation in the United Kingdom  
Section 2.3.2:  Acquisitions of Listed Non -Index Constituents   
* clarification on implementation thresholds at the time of the event  
Section 3.6: Rights Issues   
* clarification on implementation of preferential rights  
Section 3.6.3.2:  Rights Issues Offered at a Premium to Market Price   
* clarification on implementation thresholds at the time of the event  
Section 4.1.1.2:  Country Specifics   
* clarification on implementation thresholds at the time of the event  
* clarification on repair offering in Norway  
Section 4.1.2.2:  Country Specifics   
* clarification on implementation thresholds at the time of the event  
* clarification on implementation of public offerings in India  
Section 4.2: Debt -To-Equity Swaps   
* clarification on implementation thresholds at the time of the event  
Section 5.4: Country Classification Review   
* clarification on review and implementation timing of COC change  
Section 6: IPOs and Other Early Inclusions   
* clarification on the implementation of change of listing from OTC to listed market  
* clarification of the implementation of early inclusions due to large offerings  
Section 8.1: Client Announcements  
clarification on intraday announcements  
 
July 2019 updates:  
Section 5.2: Price Limit  
* new treatment for selected corporate events trading beyond daily price limit on their 
implementation day  
  
August 2019 updates:  
Section 4.1.2.1 : General Treatment  
* clarification of implementation timing for block sales and secondary offerings not 
considered for immediate implementation  
Section 4.1.2.2:  Country Specifics   
* clarification on implementation timing of block sale and secondary offering for Latin 
American and Canadian securities   
Section 5.1.1:  Prolonged Suspension   
* clarification on suspension period  
Section 5.2:  Price Limit  
* clarification of implementation in the Derived Indexes for the postponed corporate events 
involving addition and deletion from the Parent Index  
Appendix IX: Policy Regarding Trading Suspensions in the MSCI Derived Indexes during the Index 
Reviews  
* Newly added section for handling suspended securities in the Derived Indexes during the 
Index Reviews  
 
January 2020 updates:  
Appendix IV: rename to Corporate Events Implementation in Sunday Intermediary Index Calculation 
for Monday  - Friday Index calculation methodology   
 
Appendix X: Corporate Events Implementation  in Sunday - Thursday Index calculation methodology  
 
February 2020 updates:  
Appendix VIII: Implementation for stock connect A -Share securities  
* clarification of implementation to align all indexes related to China A Share component  
 
March  2020 updates:  
Section 3.2.1: Stock dividends: distribution of new underlying shares  
* new treatment of Indian stock dividend  
 
May  2020 updates:  
Section 2.4.3 : Results of Partial Tender Offers and Buybacks Offers   
* Number of shares updates smaller than + -1% are not implemented at the time of the event 
but at a subsequent Index Review   
Section 4.2: Debt -To-Equity Swaps   
* Number of shares updates smaller than + -1% are not implemented at the time of the event 
but at a subsequent Index Review   
Section 4.1.1.2:  Country Specifics   
* Update on filings  referred for Australian  offerings  
 
 January 20 21 updates:  
Section 2.4.1: Fixed price offer  
* New treatment for application of PAF in  partial acquisition and buyback  
Section 2.4.3: Results of partial tender offers and buyback offers  
* Change of implementation thresholds at the time of the event  
Section 2.4.4: Split Off/Exchange Offer  
* New treatment for application of PAF in split off/exchange offer  
* Change of implementation thresholds at the time of the event  
Section 3.6 : Rights issues  
* Change of the treatment of downward migrations  
Section 3.6.5 :  Highly Dilutive or Large Rights Issues  
* Change of the treatment for rights and subscription cash price  
 
February  2021 update s: 
Section 2.3.3: Acquisitions of Index Constituent Securities by Non -Index Constituent Securities  
* Clarification of the current treatment for unlisted securities  
 
May  2021 updates:  
Section 2.8.2 : Spun -off Not Trading on the Ex -date  
* Update on treatment of detached securities with multiple spun -off  
 
June  2021 updates:  
Section 3.6.6 : Rights Issues with subscription period before ex -date   
* New section  for rights issues with subscription period before ex -date  
 
August  2021 updates:  
Section 3.6: Rights Issues  
* Removed mention of Australia specific treatment  
* Section 8.1: Client Announcements  
* Clarification on announcements with less than 48 hours' notice  
February 2022  updates:  
Appendix IX: Corporate Events Implementation in Sunday - Thursday Index Calculation methodology  
* New treatment for evaluating prolonged suspension in Sunday - Thursday Index es 
 
August 2022  updates:  
Section 2.2.7 : Tender offers with tendered line of shares trading separately  
* Clarification on treatment when approvals are not received  
Section 2.7:  Mergers and Acquisitions Treatment in Capped Weighted and Non -Market 
Capitalization Weighted Indexes  
* Correction of values in example  
* Section 8.1: Client Announcements  
* Correction of appendix number  
 November 2022  updates:  
Section 2.8.1: Treatment When Spun off Trades on Ex -date   
* Clarification of the treatment non -index constituent spins off index constituent  
Section 3: Corporate Actions  
* Update on implementation for events with updated prices  
Section 4: Other Events Resulting in Changes in Number of Shares and FIFs and/or DIFs  
* Clarification of the treatment involving derivative contracts  
Section 4.1.1.2: Share placements and offerings: country specifics  
*  Removing treatment for  forward sale agreements  and moving to section 4  
Section 7: Share Freeze  
* Clarification on definition of business days  
 
January 2023 updates:  
* Methodology book was updated to reflect the transition of the MSCI GIMI to Quarterly 
Comprehensive Index Reviews.  
* References to the MSCI GIMI Methodology have been updated.  
* All references to "Semi -Annual Index Reviews" and "Quarterly Index Reviews" of the MSCI GIMI 
were replaced with "Index Reviews."  
Appendix VIII: Policy Regarding Trading Suspensions in the MSCI Derived Indexes during the Index 
Reviews  
* Clarification  
 
May 2023 updates:  
Section 4: Other Events Resulting in Changes in Number of Shares and FIFs and/or DIFs  
* Restructured the entire section for a more  concise view  
Section 4.4: Index Review Treatment  
* Clarifying rules for proforma addition/deletion/migration securities during Index Review s 
 
November  2023 updates:  
* Clarified meaning of  "pre-event number of shares"  
Section 1: Introduction  
* Clarified  language for country specifics  
Section s 2.1 & 2.2 : Merger and acquisitions  via mutual agreement & Tender offers  
* Standardized wording  and restructured  sub-section s 
* Clarified treatment of tender offers where FIF does not decrease below 0.15  
Section 3.6.6: Ri ghts issues country specifics  
* Section added  & clarified  country specifics for  Italy and Norway  
 
May 202 4 updates:  
Section 2.3.2, 2.4.3 & 2.4.4  
* Clarification on the treatment  of non -index constituents  
Section 3: Corporate actions  
* Clarification on the treatment of events ex on Sunday and not trading on Monday  
 Section 3.6.3.2: Rights Issues offered at a premium to market price  
* Clarification on the treatment of non -index constituents  
Section 3.6.5: Highly dilutive or large rights issues  
* Section restructured for clarity  
Section 3.6.6: Rights issues country specifics  
* Clarified country specific for India  
Section 4.2:  Implementation Thresholds  
* Clarification on the treatment  of non -index constituents  
 
August  2024 updates:  
Sections 3.6.2, 3.6.3.1, 3.6.3.4: Rights issues  
* Clarified the treatment of certain types of rights issues  
Section 3.2.1: Distribution of New Underlying Shares  
* Update d capital gain s tax rate  for India  
 
 
 
  
MSCI.COM | PAGE 95 OF 96 (c) 202 4 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
 Notice and disclaimer  
 
This document is research for informational purposes only and is intended for institutional professionals with the analytical resources and tools 
necessary to interpret any performance information. Nothing herein is intended to promote or recommend any product, tool or s ervice.  
This document and all of the information contained in it, including without limitation all text, data, graphs, charts (collec tively, the "Information") is the 
property of MSCI Inc. or its subsidiaries (collectively, "MSCI"), or MSCI's licensors, direct or indirect suppliers or any third party involved in making or 
compiling any Information (collectively, with MSCI, the "Information Providers") and is provided for informational purposes o nly.  The Information may 
not be modified, reverse -engineered, reproduc ed or redisseminated in whole or in part without prior written permission from MSCI. All rights in the 
Information are reserved by MSCI and/or its Information Providers.  
The Information may not be used to create derivative works or to verify or correct other data or information.   For example ( but without limitation), the 
Information may not be used to create indexes, databases, risk models, analytics, software, or in conn ection with the issuing, offering, sponsoring, 
managing or marketing of any securities, portfolios, financial products or other investment vehicles utilizing or based on, l inked to, tracking or otherwise 
derived from the Information or any other MSCI data,  information, products or services.   
The user of the Information assumes the entire risk of any use it may make or permit to be made of the Information.  NONE OF THE INFORMATION 
PROVIDERS MAKES ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS WITH RESPECT TO THE INFORMATION (OR THE RESULT S TO 
BE OBTAINED BY THE USE THEREOF), AND TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, EACH INFORMATION PROVIDER EXPRESSLY 
DISCLAIMS ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES (INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ORIGINALITY, ACCURACY, TIMELINESS,  
NON-INFRINGEMENT, COMPLETENESS, MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE) WITH RESPECT TO ANY OF THE 
INFORMATION.  
Without limiting any of the foregoing and to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, in no event shall any Informatio n Provider have any liability 
regarding any of the Information for any direct, indirect, special, punitive, consequential (includin g lost profits) or any other damages even if notified of 
the possibility of such damages. The foregoing shall not exclude or limit any liability that may not by applicable law be exc luded or limited, including 
without limitation (as applicable), any liabil ity for death or personal injury to the extent that such injury results from the negligence or willful default of 
itself, its servants, agents or sub -contractors.   
Information containing any historical information, data or analysis should not be taken as an indication or guarantee of any future performance, analysis, 
forecast or prediction.  Past performance does not guarantee future results.   
The Information may include "Signals," defined as quantitative attributes or the product of methods or formulas that describe  or are derived from 
calculations using historical data. Neither these Signals nor any description of historical data are intended to provide investment advice or a 
recommendation to make (or refrain from making) any investment decision or asset allocation and should not be relied upon as such. Signals are 
inherently backward -looking because of their use of historical data, and they a re not intended to predict the future. The relevance, correlations and 
accuracy of Signals frequently will change materially.  
The Information should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its manag ement, employees, advisors 
and/or clients when making investment and other business decisions.  All Information is impersonal and n ot tailored to the needs of any person, entity 
or group of persons.  
None of the Information constitutes an offer to sell (or a solicitation of an offer to buy), any security, financial product or other investment vehicle or any 
trading strategy.  
It is not possible to invest directly in an index.  Exposure to an asset class or trading strategy or other category represen ted by an index is only available 
through third party investable instruments (if any) based on that index.   MSCI does not issue, s ponsor, endorse, market, offer, review or otherwise express 
any opinion regarding any fund, ETF, derivative or other security, investment, financial product or trading strategy that is based on, linked to or seeks to 
provide an investment return related to  the performance of any MSCI index (collectively, "Index Linked Investments"). MSCI makes no assurance that 
any Index Linked Investments will accurately track index performance or provide positive investment returns.  MSCI Inc. is no t an investment adviser  or 
fiduciary and MSCI makes no representation regarding the advisability of investing in any Index Linked Investments.  
Index returns do not represent the results of actual trading of investible assets/securities. MSCI maintains and calculates i ndexes, but does not manage 
actual assets. The calculation of indexes and index returns may deviate from the stated methodology. In dex returns do not reflect payment of any sales 
charges or fees an investor may pay to purchase the securities underlying the index or Index Linked Investments. The impositi on of these fees and 
charges would cause the performance of an Index Linked Investm ent to be different than the MSCI index performance.  
The Information may contain back tested data.  Back -tested performance is not actual performance, but is hypothetical.  There are frequently material 
differences between back tested performance results and actual results subsequently achieved by any invest ment strategy.   
Constituents of MSCI equity indexes are listed companies, which are included in or excluded from the indexes according to the  application of the relevant 
index methodologies. Accordingly, constituents in MSCI equity indexes may include MSCI Inc., clients o f MSCI or suppliers to MSCI.  Inclusion of a 
security within an MSCI index is not a recommendation by MSCI to buy, sell, or hold such security, nor is it considered to be  investment advice.  
Data and information produced by various affiliates of MSCI Inc., including MSCI ESG Research LLC and Barra LLC, may be used in calculating certain 
MSCI indexes.  More information can be found in the relevant index methodologies on www.msci.com.  
MSCI receives compensation in connection with licensing its indexes to third parties.  MSCI Inc.'s revenue includes fees base d on assets in Index Linked 
Investments. Information can be found in MSCI Inc.'s company filings on the Investor Relations section of msci.com.  
MSCI ESG Research LLC is a Registered Investment Adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and a subsidiary of MSCI I nc.  Neither MSCI nor 
any of its products or services recommends, endorses, approves or otherwise expresses any opinion regarding a ny issuer, securities, financial products 
or instruments or trading strategies and MSCI's products or services are not a recommendation to make (or refrain from making ) any kind of investment 
decision and may not be relied on as such, provided that applica ble products or services from MSCI ESG Research may constitute investment advice. 
MSCI ESG Research materials, including materials utilized in any MSCI ESG Indexes or other products, have not been submitted to, nor received approval 
from, the United States  Securities and Exchange Commission or any other regulatory body. MSCI ESG and climate ratings, research and data are produced  
by MSCI ESG Research LLC, a subsidiary of MSCI Inc. MSCI ESG Indexes, Analytics and Real Estate are products of MSCI Inc. tha t utilize information 
from MSCI ESG Research LLC. MSCI Indexes are administered by MSCI Limited (UK)  and MSCI Deutschland GmbH . 
Please note that the issuers mentioned in MSCI ESG Research materials sometimes have commercial relationships with MSCI ESG R esearch and/or 
MSCI Inc. (collectively, "MSCI") and that these relationships create potential conflicts of interest.  In some cases , the issuers or their affiliates purchase 
research or other products or services from one or more MSCI affiliates. In other cases, MSCI ESG Research rates financial pr oducts such as mutual 
funds or ETFs that are managed by MSCI's clients or their affiliat es, or are based on MSCI Inc. Indexes. In addition, constituents in MSCI Inc. equity 
indexes include companies that subscribe to MSCI products or services. In some cases, MSCI clients pay fees based in whole or  part on the assets they 
manage. MSCI ESG Rese arch has taken a number of steps to mitigate potential conflicts of interest and safeguard the integrity and independence of its 
research and ratings. More information about these conflict mitigation measures is available in our Form ADV, available at 
https://adviserinfo.sec.gov/firm/summary/169222.   