MSCI INDEX GLOSSARY  
 
Key term  Definition  
Adjusted Market 
Capitalization  Market Capitalization  of a security adjusted by the Inclusion Factor and the 
Price Adjustment  Factor for the day, using the FX Rate as of t. 
All Country World 
Index (ACWI) 
Countries  Countries  classified as either Developed  Markets or Emerging  Markets. 
Announcement  date  Date on which results of index review are disseminated  publicly. 
Annual Full Country 
Float Review Once a year, detailed review of the shareholder  information  used to estimate 
free float is carried out for all securities  in the equity universe. 
Annual Market 
Classification  Review Annual cycle aiming to review the classification  of Equity Markets into 
Investment  Universes.  The results of each annual cycle are announced  in June. 
Annualized  Traded 
Value Ratio (ATVR) Liquidity measure used to assess liquidity of securities  in the GIMI. 
The ATVR corresponds  to the Annualized  Traded Value of a security relative to 
its Free Float-Adjusted Market Capitalization.  
As of the close of date "End of day" date as of which changes are implemented  in the MSCI Indexes. 
Base date of the index  The date where the index has its base value and against which the performance  
of the index is measured.  
Base value  The initial value (index level) that the index has. The value from which ongoing 
calculations  are done and compared  to. 
Capping  The process of limiting the maximum  weight of a security in an index, typically 
to avoid concentration  risk. 
Calculated  price  Price determined  by MSCI based on the terms of a corporate  event. 
Carry forward market 
price Market price of the previous business day used for the next business day in the 
MSCI Index calculations.   
Constraint  factor  Ratio of the weight of a security in a derived index and the parent index, at the 
time of the index rebalancing.  
Country Classification  
(Frontier Markets) Rules within the MSCI GIMI Methodology  used to classify each Frontier Market 
into size (Large, Small) and liquidity (Average,  Low, Very Low) categories.  
The Country Classification  is used as a basis for the construction  and 
maintenance  of each Frontier Market. 
Country Classification  
Framework  Rules used to determine  the country classification  of equity securities.  
Country of 
Classification  A country assigned to all eligible companies  in the equity universe based on 
MSCI Country Classification  framework.  
Country of Coverage   A country assigned to eligible companies  in the equity universe which cannot be 
classified based on MSCI Country Classification  framework.  
Country of 
Incorporation  A country where a company is incorporated  or legally registered.  
Cross-border event  Corporate  event involving companies  classified in two different countries.  
Cum date  Business day prior to the ex-date. 
Default distribution   Distribution  received if shareholders  do not elect for any option. 
Detached  security  A dummy security added to the MSCI Indexes to offset the drop in market 
capitalization  of the parent security, when the spunoff entity is not trading on 
the spinoff ex-date.    
Domestic  Inclusion 
Factor (DIF) Free float-adjustment  factor applicable  to domestic investors.  
Domestic  Equity 
Indexes Equity indexes constructed  on the basis of the investment  opportunity  set 
available for domestic institutional  investors 
Early Inclusion  Addition of a security to the MSCI Indexes outside regular index review process. 
Effective Date  "From the open day" date as of which changes are implemented  in the MSCI 
Indexes. 
Effective 
Implementation  Date "End of day" date as of which changes are implemented  in the MSCI Indexes. 
Efficiency  of a 
benchmark  Level of stability and simplicity  of a benchmark,  potentially  lowering replication  
costs  
Equity Index 
Methodologies  Methodology  documents  containing  construction  and maintenance  rules for the 
MSCI Equity Indexes. Any index family is governed  by a number of documents:  
the specific index methodology,  the MSCI Global Investable  Market Indexes 
methodology,  the MSCI Index Calculation  methodology,  the MSCI Corporate  
Events methodology,  the MSCI Fundamental  Data methodology  and the MSCI 
Index Policies. 
Equity Market  Geographical  entity used as a basis for the construction  and maintenance  of the 
GIMI. 
Defined by MSCI either as a country or a group of countries  (e.g. Developed  
Markets Europe). 
Equity Universe  Universe of eligible equity securities.  
Example: the Developed  Markets Equity Universe consists of eligible equity 
securities  in Developed  Markets. 
Equity Universe 
Minimum  Size 
Requirement  Minimum  full company market capitalization  requirement  for inclusion of a 
security in the Investable  Equity Universe.  
Factor Tilt  Active Exposure to a certain factor that any strategy index might have relative 
to its parent 
Final Size-Segment 
Investability  
Requirements  Additional  investability  requirements  applied to investable  equity securities  
assigned to the IMI Size-Segment during Index Reviews. 
Different requirements  apply for securities  assigned to the Standard Size-
Segment compared  to securities  assigned to the Small Cap Size-Segment.  
Foreign Inclusion 
Factor (FIF) Free float-adjustment  factor applicable  to foreign investors.  
Foreign Ownership  
Limit (FOL) Proportion  of share capital of the security that is available for purchase to 
foreign investors.  
Foreign Room  Proportion  of shares still available to foreign investors relative to the maximum  
allowed. 
Foreign Room 
Adjustment  Factor Adjustment  factor applied to the weight of securities  in the GIMI which have 
low level of foreign room. 
Free Float  Proportion  of shares outstanding  that are available to investors for purchase in 
the public equity markets. 
Free Float-Adjusted 
Market Capitalization  Market capitalization  of an equity security adjusted by its Foreign Inclusion 
Factor or Domestic  Inclusion Factor. 
Frequency  of Trading Liquidity measure used to assess liquidity of securities  in the GIMI. 
The Frequency  of Trading corresponds  to the proportion  of trading days where 
a security traded at least once during the day. 
Full Market 
Capitalization  Aggregated  market capitalization  of all listed and unlisted securities  of a 
company.  
GICS Structure   GICS is designed with four levels of classifications,  starting with sectors on the 
top, branching  into industry groups, industries  and finally the sub-industries  at 
the grass root level. 
GICS Structure  Review Annual Review of the GICS Structure  to ensure that the GICS structure remains 
relevant and current to the investment  community.  
Global Industry 
Classification  
Standard (GICS) Standard developed  by MSCI and S&P Dow Jones Indices used to classify 
companies  within the Global Investable  Equity Universe to an industry based on 
its principal business activity. 
Global Investable  
Market Indexes 
(GIMI) Family of MSCI indexes constructed  and maintained  based on the MSCI Global 
Investable  Market Indexes (GIMI) Methodology.  
Global Investable  
Equity Universe Aggregation  of all Market Investable  Equity Universes  
Global Minimum  Size 
Range Full market capitalization  range around the Global Minimum  Size Reference.  
Used as a basis for determining  the Size and Coverage  Target Area. 
Global Minimum  Size 
Reference  (GMSR) Minimum  full market capitalization  reference  number applicable  to a given Size-
Segment of a particular  Investment  Universe.  
Growth Inclusion 
Factor Proportion  of a security's  free float-adjusted market capitalization  that is 
allocated to the Growth Index, as part of the MSCI Global Value Growth 
methodology.  
Hedge Impact  Represents  the mark to market gain or loss on the forward contracts  measured  
in terms of the home currency.  
Historical  link  Price linkage established  between two securities  following  an M&A where a 
newly added security in the MSCI Indexes will have the market prices and 
volume history of the existing index constituent  being deleted from the MSCI 
Indexes. 
Home Currency  Local currency of investor investing in international  equity markets. 
Impact Monitor  Company  level score ranging from 1 to 10, indicating  involvement  in 
environment,  social and governance  (ESG) related controversies.  
Index Continuity  Rules Rules within the MSCI GIMI Methodology  aimed at maintaining  index stability 
by avoiding the temporary  inclusion or exclusion  of Equity Market indexes in 
composite  indexes. 
Index Rebase  Changes to the base date and base value of an index. 
Initial Market 
Capitalization   Market Capitalization  of a security adjusted by the Inclusion Factor for the day, 
using the FX Rate as of t-1 
Initial Security Weight The weight a security has at the beginning  of the day, comparing  its initial 
market cap against the index initial market cap. 
Interim constituents   Provisional  Constituents  that reflect certain corporate  events, similar to the 
Price Adjustment  Factor. 
International  Equity 
Indexes Equity indexes constructed  on the basis of the opportunity  set which takes into 
account potential investment  restrictions  applicable  to foreign investors 
Intraday Security 
Pricing Price movements  during the day or during the trading session. 
Investable  Company   Company  (issuer level) with at least one class of shares included in the 
Investable  Equity Universe.  
Investable  Market 
Index (IMI) Size-Segment corresponding  to the aggregation  of the Large Cap, Mid Cap and 
Small Cap Size-Segments.  
Investment  Universe  Universe of Equity Markets sharing similar investment  characteristics.   
There are three investment  universes  (Developed  Markets, Emerging  Markets, 
Frontier Markets).  
IVA Rating  Company  level rating ranging from AAA to CCC indicating  performance  on 
environment,  social and governance  (ESG) issues; based on the Intangible  Value 
Assessment  methodology  
Late announcement   Index email announcement  sent to MSCI clients in cases where MSCI decides to 
postpone  a corporate  event implementation  in order to leave sufficient  
advance notice to clients and respect the announcement  policy.  
Limited Investability  
Factor (LIF) Adjustment  factor applied to the Free Float of securities  in the GIMI in the 
process of determining  the Foreign Inclusion Factor and Domestic  Inclusion 
Factor. Used to reflect certain investment  limitations  in Equity Markets and 
securities.  
Liquidity Adjustment  
Factor Adjustment  factor applied to the weight of large securities  in Emerging  Markets 
and Frontier Markets which fail the liquidity requirements  for inclusion in the 
Investable  Equity Universe.  
Market Classification  
Framework  Rules used to classify Equity Markets into Investment  Universes.  
Market Coverage   Proportion  of the Investable  Equity Universe covered by a given Size-Segment.  
Market Investable  
Equity Universe Market universe of investable  equity securities  derived from the application  of 
investability  requirements  to the securities  in the Equity Universe classified in 
that market. 
Market Size-Segment 
Cutoff Minimum  full market capitalization  number applicable  to a given Size-Segment 
of a particular  Equity Market. 
Used as part of the index construction  and Index Review process, as well as for 
ongoing index maintenance  (corporate  events). 
Merger  Event where two merging entities cease to exist and a brand new entity is 
created. 
Number of Shares 
(NOS) All shares of the company that have been issued and outstanding.  
Parent Index  MSCI index used as the universe for the construction  of any derived index. For 
example: MSCI World is the parent index for MSCI Minimum  Volatility Index. 
Pre-opening  Information  that is available before the open of the trading session, as a 
reference.  
Price Adjustment  
Factor (PAF) Multiplier  applied to the market price of a security on the ex-date (from the 
opening of that day till its end) of a corporate  event to offset the price 
movement  related to the corporate  event only. 
Pro-Rata basis (float) Corporate  event applied proportionally  to all existing shareholders.   
Provisional  Indexes  Indexes that are used in order to reflect future changes to current indexes, and 
for doing so they are based on pro forma information.  
Quarterly  Index 
Review (QIR) Regular index maintenance  process performed  in February and August and 
aiming to reflect significant  market driven changes. 
Quarterly  Index 
Review of Changes in 
Number of Shares All securities  in the equity universe are reviewed  for the latest outstanding  
Number of Shares (NOS) as part of each regularly scheduled  Quarterly  Index 
Review 
Real Time  Information  that is available instantaneously,  without delay. 
Reinvest a negative 
amount Cash amount reinvested  in the MSCI Net DTR Indexes corresponding  to the 
withholding  tax applicable  on a distribution  in cases where the treatment  
applied by MSCI used a Price Adjustment  Factor (PAF) in the MSCI Indexes. 
Replicability  & 
Investability  of a 
benchmark  Level of accessibility  of index constituents  by a target investor group enabling 
passive replication  a benchmark  
Representativeness  of 
a benchmark  Ability of a benchmark  to reflect an investment  process it aims to represent   
Sector Indexes  Indexes aiming to represent  sector based subset of a given index, as defined by 
the MSCI GICS Classification  methodology  
Security Contribution   The fraction of performance  to the index that a security contributes  according  
to its weight. 
Security Index of Price It represents  the performance  of a security in the form of an index. 
Segment Number of 
Companies  Number of Investable  Companies  in a given Size-Segment of a particular  Equity 
Market. 
Semi-Annual Index 
Review (SAIR) Regular index maintenance  process performed  on a semi-annual basis in May 
and November  and aiming to systematically  reassess the various dimensions  of 
the Equity Universe for all Equity Markets. 
Share Type  A designation  applied to identify different securities  under same Share Class. 
Size and Coverage  
Target Area Intersection  of the GIMI size (Global Minimum  Size Range) and coverage (Target 
Coverage  Range) objectives.  
Used at the time of index construction  and Semi-Annual Index Reviews for the 
purpose of updating the Segment Number of Companies.  
Size Range Boundary  
Proximity  Area Buffers around the lower and upper bounds of the Global Minimum  Size Range. 
Aimed at minimizing  reverse index turnover resulting from the update of the 
Segment Number of Companies  during Semi-Annual Index Reviews. 
Size-Segments   Market capitalization  categories  derived from the segmentation  of the Market 
Investable  Equity Universe (example:  Large Cap Size-Segment).  
Size-Segments  are used as a basis for deriving Size-Segment Indexes. 
Standalone  Index  Index for a given Equity Market that is provided on a standalone  basis only, and 
hence not included in either the MSCI World Index, the MSCI Emerging  Markets 
Index or the MSCI Frontier Markets Index. 
Standard Size-
Segment Size-Segment corresponding  to the aggregation  of the Large Cap and Mid Cap 
Size-Segments.  
Strategy Indexes  Indexes that are based on alternative  weighting  schemes,  and introduce  a tilt 
towards one or more factors such as momentum,  volatility and value to aim to 
capture additional  systematic  risk premia. 
Style Segment  Style categories  derived from the segmentation  of the Market Investable  Equity 
Universe.  
Style Segments  are used as a basis for deriving Style Indexes (Value & Growth 
Indexes). 
Target Coverage  
Range Target range for the Market Coverage.  
Used as a basis for determining  the Size and Coverage  Target Area. 
Thematic  Indexes  Indexes that seek to identify specific social, economic,  industrial,  environmental  
or demographic  trends and their long-term secular, cyclical and structural  
influences  on the world's economies  and markets. Thematic  indexes often cut 
across traditional  sector and geographical  boundaries  and can provide 
diversification  in a portfolio context. 
Theo Cum PAF  PAF calculated  using the closing market price of the ex-date and the terms of 
the corporate  event ex on that day. 
Theo Ex  Calculated  price of the expected opening market price on the ex-date of a 
corporate  event, based on the terms of this corporate  event and the market 
price prior to the ex-date. 
Value Inclusion Factor Proportion  of a security's  free float-adjusted market capitalization  that is 
allocated to the Value Index, as part of MSCI Global Value Growth 
methodology.  
Z-score  The number of standard deviations  an observation  is away from the mean. 
  
 
AMERICAS  
 
Americas  1 888 588 4567 * 
Atlanta   + 1 404 551 3212 
Boston   + 1 617 532 0920 
Chicago   + 1 312 675 0545 
Monterrey   + 52 81 1253 4020 
New York  + 1 212 804 3901 
San Francisco  + 1 415 836 8800 
Sao Paulo  + 55 11 3706 1360 
Toronto   + 1 416 628 1007 
 
 
EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA 
 
Cape Town  + 27 21 673 0100 
Frankfurt   + 49 69 133 859 00 
Geneva   + 41 22 817 9777 
London   + 44 20 7618 2222 
Milan   + 39 02 5849 0415 
Paris   0800 91 59 17 * 
 
 
ASIA PACIFIC 
 
China North  10800 852 1032 * 
China South  10800 152 1032 * 
Hong Kong  + 852 2844 9333 
Mumbai   + 91 22 6784 9160 
Seoul   00798 8521 3392 * 
Singapore   800 852 3749 * 
Sydney   + 61 2 9033 9333 
Taipei   008 0112 7513 * 
Tokyo   + 81 3 5290 1555 
 ABOUT MSCI 
 
For more than 40 years, MSCI's research-
based indexes and analytics have helped 
the world's leading investors build and 
manage better portfolios.   Clients rely on 
our offerings for deeper insights into the 
drivers of performance  and risk in their 
portfolios,  broad asset class coverage and 
innovative  research.   
Our line of products and services includes 
indexes, analytical  models, data, real estate 
benchmarks  and ESG research.    
MSCI serves 98 of the top 100 largest 
money managers,  according  to the most 
recent P&I ranking.  
For more information,  visit us at 
www.msci.com . 
* =  toll free 
 CONTACT  US
clientservice@msci.com
 
MSCI INDEX GLOSSARY  | JUNE 2014
MSCI.COM  | PAGE 11 OF 11 (c) 2015 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
 This document  and all of the information  contained  in it, including without limitation  all text, data, graphs, charts (collectively,  the "Information")  is 
the property of MSCI Inc. or its subsidiaries  (collectively,  "MSCI"), or MSCI's licensors,  direct or indirect suppliers or any third party involved in making 
or compiling  any Information  (collectively,  with MSCI, the "Information  Providers")  and is provided for informational  purposes only.  The Information  
may not be modified,  reverse-engineered,  reproduced  or redisseminated  in whole or in part without prior written permission  from MSCI.  
The Information  may not be used to create derivative  works or to verify or correct other data or information.    For example (but without limitation),  
the Information  may not be used to create indexes, databases,  risk models, analytics,  software,  or in connection  with the issuing, offering, 
sponsoring,  managing  or marketing  of any securities,  portfolios,  financial products or other investment  vehicles utilizing or based on, linked to, 
tracking or otherwise  derived from the Information  or any other MSCI data, information,  products or services.   
The user of the Information  assumes the entire risk of any use it may make or permit to be made of the Information.   NONE OF THE INFORMATION  
PROVIDERS  MAKES ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES  OR REPRESENTATIONS  WITH RESPECT TO THE INFORMATION  (OR THE RESULTS TO BE 
OBTAINED  BY THE USE THEREOF),  AND TO THE MAXIMUM  EXTENT PERMITTED  BY APPLICABLE  LAW, EACH INFORMATION  PROVIDER  EXPRESSLY  
DISCLAIMS  ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES  (INCLUDING,  WITHOUT  LIMITATION,  ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES  OF ORIGINALITY,  ACCURACY,  TIMELINESS,  
NON-INFRINGEMENT,  COMPLETENESS,  MERCHANTABILITY  AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR  PURPOSE)  WITH RESPECT TO ANY OF THE 
INFORMATION.  
Without limiting any of the foregoing  and to the maximum  extent permitted  by applicable  law, in no event shall any Information  Provider have any 
liability regarding  any of the Information  for any direct, indirect, special, punitive, consequential  (including  lost profits) or any other damages even if 
notified of the possibility  of such damages.  The foregoing  shall not exclude or limit any liability that may not by applicable  law be excluded or limited, 
including without limitation  (as applicable),  any liability for death or personal injury to the extent that such injury results from the negligence  or 
willful default of itself, its servants, agents or sub-contractors.    
Information  containing  any historical information,  data or analysis should not be taken as an indication  or guarantee  of any future performance,  
analysis, forecast or prediction.   Past performance  does not guarantee  future results.   
The Information  should not be relied on and is not a substitute  for the skill, judgment  and experience  of the user, its management,  employees,  
advisors and/or clients when making investment  and other business decisions.   All Information  is impersonal  and not tailored to the needs of any 
person, entity or group of persons. 
None of the Information  constitutes  an offer to sell (or a solicitation  of an offer to buy), any security, financial product or other investment  vehicle or 
any trading strategy.  
It is not possible to invest directly in an index.  Exposure to an asset class or trading strategy or other category represented  by an index is only 
available through third party investable  instruments  (if any) based on that index.   MSCI does not issue, sponsor, endorse, market, offer, review or 
otherwise  express any opinion regarding  any fund, ETF, derivative  or other security, investment,  financial product or trading strategy that is based on, 
linked to or seeks to provide an investment  return related to the performance  of any MSCI index (collectively,  "Index Linked Investments").  MSCI 
makes no assurance  that any Index Linked Investments  will accurately  track index performance  or provide positive investment  returns.  MSCI Inc. is 
not an investment  adviser or fiduciary and MSCI makes no representation  regarding  the advisability  of investing in any Index Linked Investments.  
Index returns do not represent  the results of actual trading of investible  assets/securities.  MSCI maintains  and calculates  indexes, but does not 
manage actual assets. Index returns do not reflect payment of any sales charges or fees an investor may pay to purchase the securities  underlying  the 
index or Index Linked Investments.  The imposition  of these fees and charges would cause the performance  of an Index Linked Investment  to be 
different than the MSCI index performance.  
The Information  may contain back tested data.  Back-tested performance  is not actual performance,  but is hypothetical.   There are frequently  
material differences  between back tested performance  results and actual results subsequently  achieved by any investment  strategy.   
Constituents  of MSCI equity indexes are listed companies,  which are included in or excluded from the indexes according  to the application  of the 
relevant index methodologies.  Accordingly,  constituents  in MSCI equity indexes may include MSCI Inc., clients of MSCI or suppliers to MSCI.  Inclusion 
of a security within an MSCI index is not a recommendation  by MSCI to buy, sell, or hold such security, nor is it considered  to be investment  advice. 
Data and information  produced  by various affiliates of MSCI Inc., including MSCI ESG Research Inc. and Barra LLC, may be used in calculating  certain 
MSCI indexes.  More information  can be found in the relevant index methodologies  on www.msci.com.  
MSCI receives compensation  in connection  with licensing its indexes to third parties.  MSCI Inc.'s revenue includes fees based on assets in Index 
Linked Investments.  Information  can be found in MSCI Inc.'s company filings on the Investor Relations section of www.msci.com.  
MSCI ESG Research Inc. is a Registered  Investment  Adviser under the Investment  Advisers Act of 1940 and a subsidiary  of MSCI Inc.  Except with 
respect to any applicable  products or services from MSCI ESG Research,  neither MSCI nor any of its products or services recommends,  endorses,  
approves or otherwise  expresses  any opinion regarding  any issuer, securities,  financial products or instruments  or trading strategies  and MSCI's 
products or services are not intended to constitute  investment  advice or a recommendation  to make (or refrain from making) any kind of investment  
decision and may not be relied on as such. Issuers mentioned  or included in any MSCI ESG Research materials  may include MSCI Inc., clients of MSCI 
or suppliers to MSCI, and may also purchase research or other products or services from MSCI ESG Research.   MSCI ESG Research materials,  including 
materials  utilized in any MSCI ESG Indexes or other products,  have not been submitted  to, nor received approval from, the United States Securities  
and Exchange  Commission  or any other regulatory  body. 
Any use of or access to products,  services or information  of MSCI requires a license from MSCI.  MSCI, Barra, RiskMetrics,  IPD, FEA, InvestorForce,  and 
other MSCI brands and product names are the trademarks,  service marks, or registered  trademarks  of MSCI or its subsidiaries  in the United States 
and other jurisdictions.   The Global Industry Classification  Standard (GICS) was developed  by and is the exclusive property of MSCI and Standard & 
Poor's.  "Global Industry Classification  Standard (GICS)" is a service mark of MSCI and Standard & Poor's. NOTICE AND
DISCLAIMER