1. Introduction  
The MSCI Global ex Controversial Weapons Indexes (the 'Indexes') have been developed for use by 
investors, including pension funds, and universal owners who wish to avoid investments in cluster 
bombs, landmines, depleted uranium, chemical and biological we apons, blinding laser weapons, 
non-detectable fragments and incendiary weapons (white phosphorus).  
These indexes are free float - adjusted market capitalization weighted .1   
 
1 The Indexes are governed by a set of methodology and policy documents ("Methodology Set"), including the present index 
methodology document. Please refer to Appendix II for more details   
2. Constructing the Indexes  
The Indexes use company ratings and research provided by MSCI ESG Research2 for the Index 
construction.  
2.1 Underlying Universe  
The selection universe for the Indexes is defined by the constituents of the MSCI Global Investable 
Market Indexes (GIMI).  
2.2 Eligibility Criteria  
Companies that meet the business involvement criteria are excluded from the Indexes. Please refer 
to Appendix I for details on these criteria.  
* Cluster Bombs  
* Landmines  
* Depleted Uranium Weapons  
* Chemical and Biological Weapons  
* Blinding Laser Weapons  
* Non-Detectable Fragments  
* Incendiary Weapons (White Phosphorus)  
 
2.3 Treatment of Unrated Companies  
Companies not assessed by MSCI ESG Research on MSCI ESG Business Involvement Screening 
Research data are not eligible for inclusion in the Indexes if they are classified in the following Global 
Industry Classification Standard (GICS(r))3 Industry Groups: Capital Goods  and Materials . 
  
 
2 See section 4 for further information regarding ESG and climate data used in the Indexes that MSCI Limited and MSCI Deutschla nd 
GmbH source from MSCI ESG Research LLC, a separate subsidiary of MSCI Inc. MSCI ESG Research is solely responsible for the 
creat ion, determination and management of such data as a provider to MSCI Limited and MSCI Deutschland GmbH. MSCI Limited 
and MSCI Deutschland GmbH are the benchmark administrators for the MSCI indexes.  
3 GICS  is the global industry classification standard jointly developed by MSCI and S&P Global Market Intelligence.  
3. Maintaining the Indexes  
3.1 Index Reviews  
The Indexes are reviewed on a quarterly basis to coincide with the Index Reviews of the MSCI Global 
Investable Market Indexes. The changes are implemented as of the close of the last business day of 
February, May, August and November. At index reviews, all  companies in the underlying universe are 
reviewed and eligible companies are added to the Indexes. Existing constituents may be deleted 
from the Indexes if they become involved in controversial weapons and are screened according to 
the criteria described in Section 3. Any constituent that is deleted from the Parent index as a result 
of an index review is also deleted from the Indexes.  
 
The pro forma Indexes are generally announced nine business days before the effective date.  
 
In general, MSCI uses MSCI ESG Research data3 (MSCI ESG Business Involvement Screening 
Research) as of the end of the month preceding the Index Reviews for the rebalancing of the MSCI 
Global ex Controversial Weapons Indexes. For some securities, such data may not be published by 
MSCI ESG Research by the end of the month preceding the Index Review. For such securities, MSCI 
will use ESG data published after the end of month, when available, for the rebalancing of the 
Indexes . 
 
3.2 Ongoing Event-Related Maintenance  
The following section briefly describes the treatment of common corporate events within the 
Indexes.  
No new securities will be added (except where noted below) to the Index between Index Reviews. 
Parent Index deletions will be reflected simultaneously.  
There are no deletions from the Index between Index Reviews on account of a security becoming 
involved in controversial weapons.  
 
EVENT TYPE      EVENT DETAILS    
 
New additions to the Parent Index  New securities added to the Parent Index (such as 
IPOs, other early inclusions and migrations from a 
different size -segment) will not be added to the Index 
at the time of event implementation. Such securities 
will be considered for addition in the Index at  the 
subsequent Index Review . 
  
Spin -Offs  All securities created as a result of the spin -off of an 
existing Index constituent will not be added to the 
Index at the time of event implementation. 
Reevaluation for addition in the Index will occur at the 
subsequent Index Review.  
 
3 See section 4 for details of data sourced from MSCI ESG Research used in the Indexes.  
 
 
Merger/Acquisition  If an existing Index constituent is acquired by a non -
Index constituent, the existing constituent will be 
deleted from the Index and the acquiring non -
constituent will not be added to the Index.  
 
Changes in Security Characteristics  A security will continue to be an Index constituent if 
there are changes in characteristics (country, sector, 
size segment, etc.). Reevaluation for continued 
inclusion in the Index will occur at the subsequent 
Index Review.  
 
Further detail and illustration regarding specific treatment of corporate events relevant to this Index 
can be found in the MSCI Corporate Events Methodology book  
The MSCI Corporate Events methodology book is available at:  
https://www.msci.com/index/methodology/latest/CE  
  
4. MSCI ESG Research  
The Indexes are products of MSCI Inc. that utilize information such as company ratings and 
research produced and provided by MSCI ESG Research LLC (MSCI ESG Research), a subsidiary of 
MSCI Inc. In particular, the Index uses the following MSCI ESG Research product: MSCI ESG 
Business Involvement Screening Research. MSCI Indexes are administered by MSCI Limited  and 
MSCI Deutschland GmbH . 
 
4.1 MSCI ESG Business Involvement Screening Research  
 
MSCI ESG Business Involvement Screening Research (BISR) aims to enable institutional investors to 
manage environmental, social and governance (ESG) standards and restrictions reliably and 
efficiently.  
For more details on MSCI ESG Business Involvement Screening Research, please refer to 
https://www.msci.com/legal/disclosures/esg -disclosures .   
  
Appendix I: Controversial Weapons  Criteria  
The Indexes exclude companies involved in:  
* Cluster Bombs  
MSCI ESG Research's cluster bomb research identifies public companies that are involved in the 
production of cluster bombs and munitions, or the essential components of these products.  
* Landmines  
MSCI ESG Research's landmines research identifies public companies that are involved in the 
production of anti-personnel landmines, anti-vehicle landmines, or the essential components of 
these products.  
* Depleted Uranium Weapons  
MSCI ESG Research's depleted uranium weapons research identifies public companies involved in 
the production of depleted uranium weapons and armor.  
* Chemical and Biological Weapons  
MSCI ESG Research's chemical and biological weapons research identifies public companies that 
are involved in the production of chemical and biological weapons, or the essential components of 
these products.  
* Blinding Laser Weapons  
MSCI ESG Research's blinding laser weapons research identifies public companies that are involved 
in the production of weapons utilizing laser technology to cause permanent blindness.  
* Non-Detectable Fragments  
MSCI ESG Research's non -detectable fragments research identifies public companies that are 
involved in the production of weapons that use non -detectable fragments to inflict injury.  
* Incendiary Weapons (White Phosphorus)  
MSCI ESG Research's incendiary weapons research identifies companies that are involved in the 
production of weapons using white phosphorus.  
Involvement criteria:  
* Producers of the weapons  
* Producers of key components of the weapons (only applies to cluster bombs, landmines, 
depleted uranium weapons as well as chemical and biological weapons)  
* Ownership of 20% or more of a weapons or components producer  
The minimum limit is raised to 50% for financial companies having an ownership in a company that 
manufactures controversial weapons or key components of controversial weapons  
* Owned 50% or more by a company involved in weapons or components production  
Revenue limits:  
Any identifiable revenues, i.e., zero tolerance.   
Appendix II: Methodology Set  
The Indexes are governed by a set of methodology and policy documents ("Methodology Set"), 
including the present index methodology document as mentioned below:  
* Description of methodology set - 
https://www.msci.com/index/methodology/latest/ReadMe   
* MSCI Corporate Events Methodology - 
https://www.msci.com/index/methodology/latest/CE  
* MSCI Fundamental Data Methodology - 
https://www.msci.com/index/methodology/latest/FundData  
* MSCI Index Calculation Methodology - 
https://www.msci.com/index/methodology/latest/IndexCalc  
* MSCI Index Glossary of Terms - 
https://www.msci.com/index/methodology/latest/IndexGlossary  
* MSCI Index Policies - https://www.msci.com/index/methodology/latest/IndexPolicy  
* MSCI Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS) Methodology - 
https://www.msci.com/index/methodology/latest/GICS  
* MSCI Global Investable Market Indexes Methodology - 
https://www.msci.com/index/methodology/latest/GIMI  
* ESG Factors In Methodology*  
 
The Methodology Set for the Indexes can also be accessed from MSCI's webpage 
https://www.msci.com/index -methodology in the section 'Search Methodology by Index Name or 
Index Code'.  
* 'ESG Factors in Methodology' contains the list of environmental, social, and governance factors 
considered, and how they are applied in the methodology (e.g., selection, weighting or exclusion). It 
can be accessed in the Methodology Set as described abov e. 
  
Appendix III: Changes to this Document  
The following sections have been modified as of November 2014:  
Section 4.2: Ongoing Event -Related Maintenance  
Clarification of treatment of corporate events  
The following sections have been modified as of May 2017:  
Section 4: Maintaining the MSCI Global ex Controversial Weapons Indexes  
Clarification on use of ESG data for securities whose data would be available after the end of the 
month preceding Index Review.  
The following sections have been modified as of September 2017:  
Section 4.1: Index Reviews  
* Updated to include the announcement date of the pro forma indexes.  
Section 4.2: Ongoing event -related maintenance  
* Updated link to the MSCI Corporate Events Methodology  
The following sections have been modified as of May 2018:  
Section 1: Introduction  
Section 2: Screening Criteria  
Appendix  1: Controversial Weapons Criteria  
* Updated to reflect the addition of new screens for blinding lasers, non -detectable fragments and 
incendiary weapons (while phosphorus)  
The following sections have been modified as of November 2019:  
Section 2: MSCI ESG Research  
* New section  
Section 4.1: Underlying Universe  
* Updated to refer to the MSCI Global Investable Market Indexes  
Section 4.3: Index Construction  
* Removed the section  
Section 5.2: Ongoing Event -Related Maintenance  
* Clarified the treatment of different types of corporate events  
The following sections have been modified as of June 2023:  
Section 4: Maintaining the MSCI Global ex Controversial Weapons Indexes  
* Methodology book was updated to reflect the transition of the MSCI Global Investable Market 
Indexes (GIMI) to Quarterly Comprehensive Index Reviews.  
* All references to "Semi -Annual Index Reviews" and "Quarterly Index Reviews" of the MSCI GIMI 
were replaced with "Index Reviews  
Section 5: MSCI ESG Research.  
* Moved that section after the Section 4 (Maintaining the MSCI Global ex Controversial Weapons 
Indexes) .  
* Updated the descriptions of MSCI ESG Research products.  
The following sections have been modified as of  August 2024  
Section 2.3: Treatment of Unrated Companies  
* New section detailing the treatment of companies when  business involvement screening 
research is not available from MSCI ESG Research  
Section 4: ESG Research  
* Updated with the latest descriptions and links  
Appendix II: Methodology Set  
* Added details on the Methodology Set for the Indexe s  
MSCI.COM | Page 13 of 13 (c) 202 4 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
 MSCI Global ex Controversial Weapons Indexes Methodology  | August  2024  
 
 
Notice and disclaimer  
This document is research for informational purposes only and is intended for institutional professionals with the analytical  resources and tools necessary to 
interpret any performance information. Nothing herein is intended to promote or recommend any pro duct, tool or service.  
This document and all of the information contained in it, including without limitation all text, data, graphs, charts (collec tively, the "Information") is the property of 
MSCI Inc. or its subsidiaries (collectively, "MSCI"), or MSCI's licensors, direct or indirect suppliers or any third party involved in making or compiling any Information 
(collectively, with MSCI, the "Information Providers") and is provided for informational purposes only.  The Information may not be modified, reverse -engineered, 
reproduc ed or redisseminated in whole or in part without prior written permission from MSCI. All rights in the Information are reserv ed by MSCI and/or its Information 
Providers.  
The Information may not be used to create derivative works or to verify or correct other data or information.   For example ( but without limitation), the Information 
may not be used to create indexes, databases, risk models, analytics, software, or in conn ection with the issuing, offering, sponsoring, managing or marketing of any 
securities, portfolios, financial products or other investment vehicles utilizing or based on, linked to, tracking or otherwi se derived from the Information or any other 
MSCI data,  information, products or services.   
The user of the Information assumes the entire risk of any use it may make or permit to be made of the Information.  NONE OF THE INFORMATION PROVIDERS 
MAKES ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS WITH RESPECT TO THE INFORMATION (OR THE RESULT S TO BE OBTAINED BY THE USE 
THEREOF), AND TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, EACH INFORMATION PROVIDER EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ALL IMPLIED 
WARRANTIES (INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ORIGINALITY, ACCURACY, TIMELINESS, N ON-INFRINGEMENT, 
COMPLETENESS, MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE) WITH RESPECT TO ANY OF THE INFORMATION.  
Without limiting any of the foregoing and to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, in no event shall any Informatio n Provider have any liability regarding 
any of the Information for any direct, indirect, special, punitive, consequential (includin g lost profits) or any other damages even if notified of the possibility of such 
damages. The foregoing shall not exclude or limit any liability that may not by applicable law be excluded or limited, includ ing without limitation (as applicable), any 
liabil ity for death or personal injury to the extent that such injury results from the negligence or willful default of itself, its  servants, agents or sub -contractors.   
Information containing any historical information, data or analysis should not be taken as an indication or guarantee of any future performance, analysis, forecast 
or prediction.  Past performance does not guarantee future results.   
The Information may include "Signals," defined as quantitative attributes or the product of methods or formulas that describe  or are derived from calculations using 
historical data. Neither these Signals nor any description of historical data are intended to provide investment advice or a recommendation to make (or refrain from 
making) any investment decision or asset allocation and should not be relied upon as such. Signals are inherently backward -looking because  of their use of historical 
data, and they are not intended to predict the future. The relevance, correlations and accuracy of Signals frequently will ch ange materially.  
The Information should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its manag ement, employees, advisors and/or clients 
when making investment and other business decisions.  All Information is impersonal and n ot tailored to the needs of any person, entity or group of persons.  
None of the Information constitutes an offer to sell (or a solicitation of an offer to buy), any security, financial product or other investment vehicle or any trading 
strategy.  
It is not possible to invest directly in an index.  Exposure to an asset class or trading strategy or other category represen ted by an index is only available through third 
party investable instruments (if any) based on that index.   MSCI does not issue, s ponsor, endorse, market, offer, review or otherwise express any opinion regarding 
any fund, ETF, derivative or other security, investment, financial product or trading strategy that is based on, linked to or  seeks to provide an investment return related 
to the performance of any MSCI index (collectively, "Index Linked Investments"). MSCI makes no assurance that any Index Linked I nvestments will accurately track 
index performance or provide positive investment returns.  MSCI Inc. is not an investment adviser  or fiduciary and MSCI makes no representation regarding the 
advisability of investing in any Index Linked Investments.  
Index returns do not represent the results of actual trading of investible assets/securities. MSCI maintains and calculates i ndexes, but does not manage actual 
assets. The calculation of indexes and index returns may deviate from the stated methodology. In dex returns do not reflect payment of any sales charges or fees 
an investor may pay to purchase the securities underlying the index or Index Linked Investments. The imposition of these fees  and charges would cause the 
performance of an Index Linked Investm ent to be different than the MSCI index performance.  
The Information may contain back tested data.  Back -tested performance is not actual performance, but is hypothetical.  There are frequently material differences 
between back tested performance results and actual results subsequently achieved by any invest ment strategy.   
Constituents of MSCI equity indexes are listed companies, which are included in or excluded from the indexes according to the  application of the relevant index 
methodologies. Accordingly, constituents in MSCI equity indexes may include MSCI Inc., clients o f MSCI or suppliers to MSCI.  Inclusion of a security within an MSCI 
index is not a recommendation by MSCI to buy, sell, or hold such security, nor is it considered to be investment advice.  
Data and information produced by various affiliates of MSCI Inc., including MSCI ESG Research LLC and Barra LLC, may be used in calculating certain MSCI indexes.  
More information can be found in the relevant index methodologies on www.msci.com.  
MSCI receives compensation in connection with licensing its indexes to third parties.  MSCI Inc.'s revenue includes fees base d on assets in Index Linked Investments. 
Information can be found in MSCI Inc.'s company filings on the Investor Relations section of msci.com.  
MSCI ESG Research LLC is a Registered Investment Adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and a subsidiary of MSCI I nc.  Neither MSCI nor any of its 
products or services recommends, endorses, approves or otherwise expresses any opinion regarding a ny issuer, securities, financial products or instruments or 
trading strategies and MSCI's products or services are not a recommendation to make (or refrain from making) any kind of inve stment decision and may not be 
relied on as such, provided that applica ble products or services from MSCI ESG Research may constitute investment advice. MSCI ESG Research materials, including 
materials utilized in any MSCI ESG Indexes or other products, have not been submitted to, nor received approval from, the Uni ted States  Securities and Exchange 
Commission or any other regulatory body. MSCI ESG and climate ratings, research and data are produced by MSCI ESG Research LL C, a subsidiary of MSCI Inc. 
MSCI ESG Indexes, Analytics and Real Estate are products of MSCI Inc. that ut ilize information from MSCI ESG Research LLC. MSCI Indexes are administered by 
MSCI Limited (UK) and MSCI Deutschland GmbH.  
Please note that the issuers mentioned in MSCI ESG Research materials sometimes have commercial relationships with MSCI ESG R esearch and/or MSCI Inc. 
(collectively, "MSCI") and that these relationships create potential conflicts of interest.  In some cases , the issuers or their affiliates purchase research or other 
products or services from one or more MSCI affiliates. In other cases, MSCI ESG Research rates financial products such as mut ual funds or ETFs that are managed 
by MSCI's clients or their affiliat es, or are based on MSCI Inc. Indexes. In addition, constituents in MSCI Inc. equity indexes include companies that subscribe  to 
MSCI products or services. In some cases, MSCI clients pay fees based in whole or part on the assets they manage. MSCI ESG Re search has taken a number of 
steps to mitigate potential conflicts of interest and safeguard the integrity and independence of its research and ratings. M ore information about these conflict 
mitigation measures is available in our Form ADV, available at http s://adviserinfo.sec.gov/firm/summary/169222.   
Any use of or access to products, services or information of MSCI requires a license from MSCI. MSCI, Barra, RiskMetrics, IPD  and other MSCI brands and product 
names are the trademarks, service marks, or registered trademarks of MSCI or its subsidiaries in  the United States and other jurisdictions.  The Global Industry 
Classification Standard (GICS) was developed by and is the exclusive property of MSCI and S&P Global Market Intelligence.  "G lobal Industry Classification Standard 
(GICS)" is a service mark o f MSCI and S&P Global Market Intelligence.  
MIFID2/MIFIR notice: MSCI ESG Research LLC does not distribute or act as an intermediary for financial instruments or structu red deposits, nor does it deal on its 
own account, provide execution services for others or manage client accounts. No MSCI ESG Res earch product or service supports, promotes or is intended to 
support or promote any such activity. MSCI ESG Research is an independent provider of ESG data.  
Privacy notice: For information about how MSCI collects and uses personal data, please refer to our Privacy Notice at https://www.msci.com/privacy -pledge . 