 Outline  of the Methodology Book  
This methodology book outlines MSCI's index objectives and details the 
methodology employed to create and maintain the MSCI Global Investable Market 
Indexes .  
Section 1 provides an introduction and background to the MSCI Global Investable 
Market Index es including the objectives and design of the indexes . 
Section 2 details the principles and the methodology used for index construction. 
This includes the investability requirements and the size -segmentation methodology 
used in constructing the indexes . 
Section 3 describes the maintenance principles employed for reflecting the evolution 
of the markets in a timely fashion while providing index stability and controlling 
turnover.  
Section 4 details the principles and the methodology used for MSCI All Cap Indexes  
construction.  
Section 5 details the principles and the methodology used for MSCI Frontier Markets 
Indexes construction.  
Section 6  details the principles and the methodology used for MSCI Standalone 
Market  Indexes construction.  
The Appendices contain details on equity market coverage, country classification of 
securities, free float definition and estimation, and other attributes.  
For more information on the terms used throughout this methodology document 
please refer to the MS CI Index Glossary on MSCI's web site: 
https://www.msci.com/index -methodology .  
This book was last updated in  August  2024 . 
 1 Introduction to the MSCI Global Investable Market 
Indexes  
For over 50 years, MSCI has constructed the most widely used international equity 
indexes  for institutional investors.  The MSCI global equity indexes  have maintained 
their leading position because they have evolved over time to continue to 
appropriately reflect the international investable opportunity set of equities while 
addressing the changing and expanding investment intere sts of cross -border 
investors.  
Developments in international equity markets and investment management 
processes have led many investors to desire very broad coverage and size -
segmentation of the international equity markets.  To address these desires and 
continue to meet our index const ruction and maintenance objective, after a thorough 
consultation with members of the international investment community, MSCI 
enhanced its Standard Index methodology, by moving from a sampled multi -cap 
approach to an approach targeting exhaustive coverage with non -overlapping size 
and style segments.  The MSCI Standard and MSCI Small Cap Indexes , along with the 
other MSCI equity indexes  based on them, transitioned to the Global Investable 
Market Indexes  methodology described in this methodology book. The transition was 
completed at the end of May 2008.  
The MSCI Standard Indexes are composed of the MSCI Large Cap and Mid Cap 
Indexes.  The  MSCI Global Small Cap Index transitioned to the MSCI Small Cap Index 
resulting from the Global Investable Market Indexes  methodology, and contains no 
overlap with constituents of the transitioned MSCI Standard Indexes . Together, the 
relevant MSCI Large Cap, Mid Cap and Small Cap Indexes  make up the MSCI 
Investable Market Index for each country, composite, sector, and style index that 
MSCI offers.  
Based on transparent and objective rules, the Global Investable Market Indexes  are 
intended to provide:  
* Exhaustive coverage of the investable opportunity set with non -overlapping 
size and style segmentation.  
* A strong emphasis on investability and replicability of the indexes through 
the use of size and liquidity screens.  
* Size segmentation designed to achieve an effective balance between the 
objectives of global size integrity and country diversification.  
 * An innovative maintenance methodology that provides a superior balance 
between index stability and reflecting changes in the opportunity set in a 
timely way.  
* A complete and consistent  set of Size -Segment  Index es, with Standard, Large 
Cap, Mid Cap, Small Cap, and Investable Market Indexes.  
In addition to the innovations listed above, the Global Investable Market Indexes  
methodology retain ed many of the features of the original methodology, such as:  
* The use of a building block approach to permit the creation and calculation 
of meaningful composites.  
* The creation of sector and industry indexes using the Global Industry 
Classification Standard (GICS(r) ).  
* Minimum free float requirements for eligibility and free float -adjusted 
capitalization weighting to appropriately reflect the size of each investment 
opportunity and facilitate the replicability of the Indexes.  
* Timely and consistent treatment of corporate events and synchronized 
rebalancings, globally.  
In November 2010 , MSCI also introduced a Micro Cap Size -Segment for developed 
markets as well as the MSCI World All Cap Index consisting of the Large, Mid, Small 
and Micro Cap Size -Segments in order to further broaden the coverage of th e 
international equity markets.  
 
 2 Constructing the MSCI Global Investable Market 
Indexes  
The MSCI Global Investable Markets Indexes are constructed and maintained at an 
individual Market1 level.   
Constructing the MSCI Global Investable Market Indexes  involves the following 
steps:  
* Defining the Equity Universe  for each Market .  
* Determining the Market Investable Equity Universe for each Market.  
* Determining market capitalization size -segments for each Market.  
* Applying Index Continuity Rules for the Standard Index.  
* Classifying securities under the Global Industry Classification Standard 
(GICS).  
* Using a building block approach, Regional and Composite Indexes can be 
created from the individual Market Indexes for each size -segment. GICS -
based, share type -based and other more granular  indexes may also be 
derived from the Market, Regional and Composite Indexes.  
Each of these steps is described in detail below.  
2.1 Defining the Equity Universe  
The Equity Universe is defined by:  
* Identifying eligible equity securities, and  
* Classifying these eligible equity securities into the appropriate country.  
2.1.1  Identifying Eligible Equity Securities  
All listed equity securities, including Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs)2 and 
certain income trusts listed in Canada3 are eligible for inclusion in the Equity 
 
1 Developed Markets Europe , Baltic States  and WAEMU are treated as single markets for the purpose of index 
construction.  
2 Please refer to Appendix I for the list of REITs and REIT equivalent structures across different countries 
tracked by MSCI.  
3 Please refer to Appendix I for the eligibility criteria of Canada Income Trusts.  
 Universe.  Limited partnerships, limited liability companies, and business trusts, which 
are listed in the USA and are not structured to be taxed as limited partnerships, are 
likewise eligible for inclusion in the Equity Universe . Conversely, mutual funds, ETFs, 
equity derivatives , and most investment trusts are not eligible for inclusion in the 
Equity Universe.4  
Preferred shares that exhibit characteristics of equity securities are eligible. As the 
definition of the preferred shares may vary from country to country or even from one 
company to another, MSCI analyses this type of security on a case by case basis. 
The key criterion for a preferred share to be eligible is that it should not have features 
that make it resemble - and behave like - a fixed income security, such as the 
entitlement to a fixed dividend and/or, in case of liquidation, an entitlement to a 
comp any's net assets which is limited to the par value of the preferred share. On the 
other hand, preferred shares whose only difference compared to common shares is a 
limited voting power are eligible for inclusion in the Equity Universe.  
Stapled securities are considered eligible if each of the underlying components 
exhibit characteristics of equity securities.  
2.1.2  Country Classification of Eligible Securities  
Each company and its securities (i.e., share classes) is classified in one and only one 
country, which allows for a distinctive sorting of each company by its respective 
country.  
All securities  in the Equity Universe classified into  a Developed Market (DM)  make up 
the DM Equity Universe  while all securities in the Equity Universe classified into an 
Emerging Market (EM) make up the EM Equity Universe . Additionally, all securities in 
the Equity Universe classified into a Frontier Market (FM) make up the FM Equity 
Universe.  
Please refer to Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  and Appendix III: Country 
Classification of Securities  for further details.  
2.2 Determining  the Market Investable Equity Universe s 
A Market Investable Equity Universe for a market is derived by : 
* Identifying eligible listings for each security in the Equity Universe, and  
 
4 In general, GICS may be considered in determining eligibility of mutual funds/ investment trusts in the MSCI 
equity universe.  
 * Applying investability screens to individual companies and securities in the 
Equity Universe that are classified in that market.  
A market is equivalent to a single country, except in DM Europe, where all DM 
countries in Europe are aggregated into a single market for index construction 
purposes. Subsequently, individual DM Europe country indexes  within the MSCI 
Europe Index are derived from the constituents of the MSCI Europe Index under the 
Global Investable Market Indexes  methodology.  
The Global Investable Equity Universe is the aggregation of all Market Investable 
Equity Universes. The DM Investable Equity Universe is the aggregation of all the 
Market Investable Equity Universes for Developed Markets.  
2.2.1  Identifying Eligible Listings  
A security may have a listing in the country where it is classified (i.e. "local listing") 
and/or in a different country (i.e. "foreign listing").  
Securities may be represented by either a local listing or a foreign listing (including a 
Depositary Receipt) in the Global Investable Equity Universe. A security may be 
represented by a foreign listing only if the following conditions are met:  
* The security is classified in a country that meets the Foreign Listing Materiality 
Requirement, and  
* The security's foreign listing is traded on an eligible stock exchange of:  
 A DM country if the security is classified in a DM country, or  
 A DM or an EM country if the security is classified in an EM country, or  
 A DM or an EM or a FM country if the security is classified in a FM country.  
If a country does not meet the Foreign Listing Materiality Requirement, then 
securities in that country may not be represented by a foreign listing in the Global 
Investable Equity Universe.  
Please refer to Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  and   
 Appendix IV: Foreign  Listing Materiality Requirement  for further details.  
2.2.2  Applying Investability Screens  
Some of the investability requirements are applied at the individual security level and 
some at the overall company level, represented by the aggregation of individual 
securities of the company. As such, the inclusion or exclusion of one security does 
not imply the automatic inclusion or exclusion of other securities of the same 
company.  
The investability screens used to determine the Investable Equity Universe in each 
market are:  
* Equity Universe Minimum Size Requirement.  
* Equity Universe Minimum Free Float -Adjusted Market Capitalization 
Requirement.  
* DM and EM Minimum Liquidity Requirement.  
* Global Minimum Foreign Inclusion Factor Requirement.  
* Minimum Length of Trading Requirement.  
* Minimum Foreign Room Requirement.  
* Financial Reporting Requirement.  
2.2.3  Equity Universe Minimum  Size Requirement  
This investability screen is applied at the company level.  
In order to be included in a Market Investable Equity Universe, a company must have 
the required minimum full market capitalization. This minimum full market 
capitalization is referred to as the Equity Universe Minimum Size Requirement. The 
Equity Universe Minimum Size Requirement applies to  companies in all markets, 
Developed and Emerging, and is derived as follows:  
* First, the companies in the DM Equity Universe are sorted in descending order of 
full market capitalization and the cumulative coverage of the free float -adjusted 
market capitalization5 of the DM Equity Universe is calculated at each company. 
Each company's free float -adjusted market capitalization is represented by the 
 
5 Unless explicitly stated otherwise in this methodology book, the free float -adjusted market capitalization used 
by MSCI is post application of any relevant adjustment factors (e.g. adjustment factors applied due to low 
foreign room, Liquidity Adjustment F actors).  
 aggregation of the free float -adjusted market capitalization of the securities of 
that company in the Equity Universe.  
* Second, when the cumulative free float -adjusted market capitalization coverage 
of 99% of the sorted Equity Universe is achieved, the full market capitalization of 
the company at that point defines the Equity Universe Minimum Size 
Requirement.  
* The rank of this company by descending order of full market capitalization within 
the DM Equity Universe is noted and  will be used in determining the Equity 
Universe Minimum Size Requirement at the next rebalance.  
 
Example:  
Using the steps mentioned above, in this example the full market 
capitalization of the 8008th company of USD 150 million will be 
chosen as the Equity Universe Minimum Size Requirement.  
 
 
At the time of the August  2024  Index Review , the Equity Universe 
Minimum Size Requirement was USD 383 million  for the Developed 
and Emerging Markets while it was USD 10 million for the Frontier 
Markets . Companies with full market capitalizations below this level 
are not included in any Market Investable Equity Universe. The Equity 
Universe Minimum Size Requirement is reviewed and, if necessary 
revised, at Index Reviews.  
Company CountryFull Market 
Capitalization 
(USD millions)Free Float-
Adjusted Market 
Capitalization 
(USD millions)Cumulative Free 
Float-Adjusted 
Market 
Capitalization 
CoverageRank of 
Company
A a 400,000 400,000                  1.29% 1
B a 360,000 360,000                  2.45% 2
C a 275,000 250,000                  3.26% 3
AD a 250,000 250,000                  4.06% 4
AE b 240,000 190,000                  4.68% 5
AF c 235,000 95,000                    4.98% 6
GG a 230,000 230,000                  5.73% 7
AH a 225,000 225,000                  6.45% 8
AL d 210,000 210,000                  7.13% 9
... ... ... ... ...
... ... ... ... ...
.. .. .. .. ..
WWW f 1,000 250                         98.99% 8,007
XYZ g 150 130                         99.00% 8,008
YYY f 125 125                         99.01% 8,009
ZZZZ f 100 100                         99.01% 8,010
... ... ... ... ...
Total 31,000,000             100.00%
 2.2.4  Equity Universe Minimum Float -Adjusted Market Capitalization 
Requirement  
This investability screen is applied at the individual security level. To be eligible for 
inclusion in a Market Investable Equity Universe, a security must have a free float -
adjusted market capitalization equal to or higher than 50% of the Equity Universe 
Minimum Size Requirement.  
2.2.5  DM and EM Minimum Liquidity  Requirement  
This investability screen is applied at the individual security level. To be eligible for 
inclusion in a Market Investable Equity Universe, a security must have at least one 
eligible listing (as defined in section 2.2.1) that meets the Minimum Liquidity 
Requirement defined below,  measured by:  
* Twelve month and 3 -month Annual Traded Value Ratio (ATVR);  
* Three month Frequency of Trading.  
The ATVR mitigates the impact of  extreme daily trading volumes  and takes into 
account the free float -adjusted market capitalization of securities. The aim of the 12 -
month and 3 -month ATVR together with 3 -month Frequency of Trading is to select 
securities with a sound long and short -term liquidity.  
A minimum liquidity level of 20% of 3 -month ATVR and 90% of 3 -month Frequency of 
Trading over the last 4 consecutive quarters, as well as 20% of 12 -month ATVR are 
required for the inclusion of a security in a Market Investable Equity Universe of a 
Develope d Market. This rule is referred to as the DM Minimum Liquidity Requirement.  
A minimum liquidity level of 15% of 3 -month ATVR and 80% of 3 -month Frequency of 
Trading over the last 4 consecutive quarters, as well as 15% of 12 -month ATVR are 
required for the inclusion of a security in a Market Investable Equity Universe of an 
Emergin g Market. This rule is referred to as the EM Minimum Liquidity Requirement.  
In addition to the ATVR and Frequency of Trading requirements, securities in the 
MSCI China Equity Universe will not be eligible for inclusion in the Market Investable 
Equity Universe if the securities:  
* Are suspended on the Price Cutoff Date (as defined in section 3.1.9) of the Index 
Review  
 * Have been suspended for 50 consecutive business days or more in the past 12 
months6 
Only one listing per security may be included in the Market Investable Equity 
Universe. In instances when a security has two or more eligible listings that meet the 
above liquidity requirements, then the following priority rules are used to determine 
which listing will be used for potential i nclusion of the security in the Market 
Investable Equity Universe:  
* Local listing7 
* Foreign listing in the same geographical region8 
* Foreign listing in a different geographical region9. 
Concerning the level of a stock price, there may be liquidity issues for securities 
trading at a very high stock price. Hence, a limit of USD 10,000 has been set and 
securities with stock prices above USD 10,000 fail the liquidity screening. This rule 
appl ies only for non -constituents of the MSCI Global Investable Market Indexes . 
Consequently, current constituents of the MSCI Global Investable Market Indexes  
would remain in the index if the stock price passes the USD 10,000 threshold.  
The ATVR10 of each security is calculated in a 3 -step process:  
 
6 As of each day from the effective date of the Index Review one year prior to the price cutoff date of the current 
Index Review (for example: a non -Index constituent suspended for 50 days as of any day from June 1, 2017, the 
effective date of the May 20 17 Index Review , to April 23, 2018, the price cutoff date of the May 2018 Index 
Review , would not have been eligible for the Investable Market Universe of the May 2018 Index Review ). 
7 If the security has two or more local listings , then the listing with the highest 3 -month ATVR would be used . 
8 MSCI classifies markets into three main geographical regions: EMEA, Asia Pacific and Americas.  If the 
security has two or more foreign  listings  in the same geographical region , then the listing with the highest 3 -
month ATVR would be used . 
9 If the security has two or more foreign  listings  in a different geographical region , then the listing with the 
highest 3 -month ATVR would be used . 
10  Notes on ATVR calculation:  
- MSCI uses consolidated trading values for securities listed in the USA and Canada and single 
exchange trading values for listings in all other markets.  
- Days with no trading volume are excluded when taking the median of the daily traded values.  
- Trading volume and price for liquidity computation will only be captured from eligible exchange.  
- In general, MSCI uses free float -adjusted security market capitalization after the application of any 
relevant adjustment factors (e.g. adjustment factors applied due to low foreign room, Liquidity 
Adjustment Factors).  
 
 * First, monthly median traded values are computed using the median daily traded 
value, multiplied by the number of days in the month that the security traded. The 
daily traded value of a security is equal to the number of shares traded during the 
day, multi plied by the closing price of that security. The median daily traded value 
is the median of the daily traded values in a given month.  
* Second, the monthly median traded value of a security is divided by its free float -
adjusted security market capitalization at the end of the month for each month, 
giving the monthly median traded value ratio.  
* Finally, the 12 -month ATVR is obtained by taking the average of the monthly 
median traded value ratios of the previous 12 months - or the number of months 
for which this data is available (previous 6 months, 3 months or 1 month) - and 
annualizing it by mul tiplying it by 12. The 3 -month ATVR is obtained by taking the 
average of the monthly median traded value ratios of the previous 3 months - or 
1 month if 3 months of data are not available - and annualizing it by multiplying 
it by 12.  
The 3 -month Frequency of Trading is determined by dividing the number of days a 
security traded during a 3 -month period by the maximum possible number of trading 
days within this period.  If 3 months of data are not available, 1 month of data is used 
for the calculation of 3 -month Frequency of Trading . 
In some circumstances, MSCI may apply relevant adjustments to the liquidity values 
obtained in the above algorithm. For example,  
* At the time of the regular Index Review s, in those cases where the ATVR and/or 
Frequency of Trading are the decisive elements that cause  the non -addition or 
deletion of a security  from the Market Investable Universe , the ATVR and 
Frequency of Trading of securities that have been suspended during the relevant 
period are reviewed to adjust for  the suspension days : 
 In the case of ATVRs, the suspended days are added back to the number of days in the month the 
security traded to derive the monthly median traded value.  
 In the case of Frequency of Trading, the suspended days are excluded from the maximum possible 
number of trading days in the period.  
 When a security is suspended for the entire period of the relevant ATVR or Frequency of Trading 
calculations, the respective values for the suspended period are not calculated and are generally not 
taken into consideration for the Index Review. However, no n-constituents of the Investable Market 
Index are not eligible for the Market Investable Equity Universe if the latest 3 -month ATVR is not 
calculated due to suspensions.  
 
- ATVR values used in the regular Index Reviews as well as the relevant thresholds are not rounded.  
 * During a month when IPO occurred, in those cases where the ATVR is the 
decisive element that causes the non -addition of a security, MSCI may adjust the 
relevant monthly median value of the IPO month by considering the market 
trading days prior to the listi ng of the security. Generally, in the month of IPO, the 
first three days of trading are not included in calculating the median of the daily 
traded value. Furthermore, there must be at least five trading days, exclusive of 
the first three days of trading, f or the monthly median value to be calculated in 
the month when IPO occurred11. 
* In the cases of large public offerings that significantly increase a security's free 
float -adjusted market capitalization and liquidity, MSCI may use trading volumes 
after the public offering.  
* When determining the potential re -addition of a security that was deleted in the 
prior 12 -months, MSCI may adjust ATVR values by excluding the trading volumes 
of the month during which the deletion of the security was announced and 
implemented.  
* In the cases of securities traded on Saturdays and/or Sundays, MSCI may adjust 
ATVR values by including the trading volumes on those days12.  
* In case of an increase in a security's FIF from zero to non -zero effective at an 
upcoming regular Index Review or during the relevant ATVR calculation period 
(e.g. due to an increase in FOL or in any adjustment factor), MSCI may adjust 
ATVR values by apply ing the updated FOL or adjustment factor during the ATVR 
calculation period where the FIF was zero.  
* In some  cases of FIF changes due to significant FIF corrections, regulatory 
changes in Foreign Ownership Limits or methodology changes, MSCI may adjust 
ATVR values by applying the updated FIF during the relevant ATVR calculation 
period.  
2.2.6  Global Minimum  Foreign Inclusion Factor Requirement  
This investability screen is applied at the individual security level.  
To be eligible for inclusion in a Market Investable Equity Universe, a security's 
Foreign Inclusion Factor (FIF) must reach a certain threshold. The FIF of a security is 
 
11 In the cases of initial public offering of China A shares, MSCI may use trading volumes after the limit up 
period.  
12 Liquidity values published in the MSCI product files currently does not consider trading volumes on Saturdays 
and/or Sundays.  
 defined as the proportion of shares outstanding that is available for purchase in the 
public equity markets by international investors. This proportion accounts for the 
available free float of and/or the foreign ownership limits applicable to a specific 
security (or company).  
In general, a security must have a FIF equal to or larger than 0.15 to be eligible for 
inclusion in a Market Investable Equity Universe. This rule is referred to as the Global 
Minimum Foreign Inclusion Factor Requirement.  
Exceptions to this general rule are made only in the limited cases where the 
exclusion of securities of a very large company would compromise the Standard 
Index's ability to fully and fairly represent the characteristics of the underlying 
market. Please re fer to Sub-section 2.3.6  Applying Final Size -Segment Investability 
Requirements  for more details.  
2.2.7  Minimum Length of Trading Requirement  
This investability screen is applied at the individual security level.  
For an IPO to be eligible for inclusion in a Market Investable Equity Universe, the new 
issue must have started trading at least three months before the implementation of 
an Index Review. This rule is referred to as the Minimum Length of Trading 
Requirement. This requirement is applicable to small new issues in all markets.  
Large IPOs and large primary / secondary offerings of non index -constituents are not 
subject to the Minimum Length of Trading Requirement and may be included in a 
Market Investable Equity Universe and the Standard Index outside of a n Index 
Review. Please refer to Sub-section 3. 2.4.1: IPOs and Other Early Inclusions  for 
details.  
2.2.8  Minimum Foreign Room Requirement13 
This investability screen is applied at the individual security level.  
For a security that is subject to a Foreign Ownership Limit (FOL) to be eligible for 
inclusion in a Market Investable Equity Universe, the proportion of shares still 
 
13 Indian securities included in the National Securities Depository Limited's (NSDL) & Central Depository 
Services Limited's (CDSL) official list of securities for which the Red flag or Breach limit has been reached 
would not be considered for the inclusion i n Market Investable Equity Universe . More generally, based on 
information available from the country regulatory authority, for securities where further purchase are restricted 
due to foreign ownership restriction, the securities would not be considered for the inclusion in Market 
Investable  Equity Universe.  
 available to foreign investors relative to the maximum allowed (referred to as 
"foreign room") must be at least 15%.  
For more information on the adjustment applied to securities within the Market 
Investable Equity Universe that have foreign room less than 25%, please refer to Sub -
section 2.3. 6.2 for details.  
2.2.9  Financial Reporting Requirement  
This investability screen is applied at the company level. Companies classified in the 
United States  as per Appendix III: Country Classification of Securities , must file a 
Form 10 -K/10 -Q to be eligible for inclusion in the USA Investable Equity Universe.  
2.3 Defining Market Capitalization Size -Segments for Each Market  
Once a Market Investable Equity Universe is defined, it is segmented into the 
following size -based indexes : 
* Investable Market Index (Large + Mid + Small).  
* Standard Index (Large + Mid)  
* Large Cap Index  
* Mid Cap Index  
* Small Cap Index  
The structure of the MSCI Global Investable Market Index es in each market is 
depicted below.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Investable Market Index, the Standard Index and the Large Cap Index are created 
first, while the Mid Cap Index is derived as the difference between the Standard Index 
and the Large Cap Index and the Small Cap Index is derived as the difference 
between the Investable Market Index and the Standard Index.  
In order to create size -segments that can be meaningfully aggregated into 
composites, the individual Market Size -Segments need to balance the following two 
objectives:  
* Achieving Global Size Integrity  by ensuring that, within a given size -segment of a 
composite index, only companies of comparable and relevant sizes are included 
across all markets. This can be measured by looking at a size -segment cutoff 
relative to a free float -adjusted market capitali zation coverage target based on 
the Global Investable Equity Universe.  
* Achieving Consistent Market Coverage  by ensuring that each market's size -
segment is represented in its proportional weight in the composite universe. This 
can be measured by looking at a size -segment cutoff relative to a consistent and 
comparable target size -segment coverage within each mark et. 
It is not possible to achieve both of these objectives consistently and simultaneously 
across all markets. Therefore, to balance these objectives, the methodology sets a 
minimum size cutoff for each size -segment in each market using:  
* A size range for all markets derived from a free float -adjusted target market 
capitalization of the Global Investable Equity Universe, together with  
* A target free float -adjusted coverage range set within each individual Market 
Investable Equity Universe.  
The intersection of these ranges specifies a Size and Coverage Target Area as 
depicted below. This is done for each of the three size -segment indexes , namely the 
Investable Market Index, the Standard Index, and the Large Cap Indexes . 
 
  
 
Creating the Size -Segment Indexes  in each market involves the following steps:  
* Defining the Market Coverage Target Range for each size -segment.  
* Determining the Global Minimum Size Range for each size -segment.  
* Determining the Market Size -Segment Cutoffs and associated Segment Number 
of Companies  
* Assigning companies to the size -segments.  
* Applying final size -segment investability requirements.  
2.3.1  Defining the Market Coverage Target Range for Each Size -Segment  
To define the Size -Segment Indexes  for a market, the following free float -adjusted 
market capitalization Market Coverage Target Ranges are applied to the Market 
Investable Equity Universe:  
* Large Cap Index:   70% +- 5%.  
* Standard Index:   85% +- 5%.  
* Investable Market Index:  99%+1% or -0.5%.  
The Mid Cap Index market coverage in each market is derived as the difference 
between the market coverage of the Standard Index and the Large Cap Index in that 
market.  
The Small Cap Index market coverage in each market is derived as the difference 
between the free float -adjusted market capitalization coverage of the Investable 
Market Index and the Standard Index in that market.  
Size and Coverage
     Target AreaFull Market Capitalization
Cumulative 
Free Float- 
Adjusted 
Market 
CoverageSize 
Range
Coverage  
Range
 2.3.2  Determining the Global Minimum Size Range for Each Size -Segment  
The Global Minimum Size Range for each size -segment is determined by defining a 
Global Minimum Size Reference for Large Cap, Standard, and Investable Market 
Indexes , and specifying a range of 0.5 times to 1.15 times those References.  
2.3.2.1  DEFINING THE GLOBAL MINIMUM SIZE REFERENCE  
The Global Minimum Size Reference for the Large Cap, Standard, and Investable 
Market size -segments are derived in a similar manner to the derivation of the Equity 
Universe Minimum Size as follows:  
* First, the companies in the DM Investable Equity Universe are sorted in 
descending order of full market capitalization and the cumulative free float -
adjusted market capitalization coverage of the DM Investable Equity Universe is 
calculated at each company.  
* Then, the respective full market capitalizations of the companies that provide the 
following cumulative free float -adjusted market capitalization coverage of the 
DM Investable Equity Universe are chosen:  
 DM Large Cap Index:  70% coverage.  
 DM Standard Index:   85% coverage.  
 DM Investable Market Index:  99% coverage.  
* For Emerging Markets, the Global Minimum Size Reference is set at one -half the 
corresponding level of full market capitalization used for the Developed Markets 
for each size -segment.  
The Global Minimum Size References for the Large Cap, Standard, and Investable 
Market segments, based on July 18, 2024 data, are set forth below.  
 
The full market capitalization of the company that provides at least 
an 85% cumulative free float -adjusted coverage of the DM Investable 
Equity Universe is USD 11.0 4 billion. This level, therefore, defines the 
Global Minimum Size Reference for DM Standard Indexes. Applying 
the range of 0.5 times to 1.15 times to this Global Minimum Size 
Reference gives the Global Minimum Size Range of USD 5.52 billion 
to USD 12.69  billion for the DM Standard Indexes. The EM range for 
the Standard Indexes, therefore, is USD 2.76 billion to USD  6.35 
billion.  
         
  
2.3.3  Determining the Segment Number of Companies and Associated Market 
Size -Segment Cutoffs  
The Market Size -Segment Cutoffs are derived by identifying a size cutoff which falls 
within, or as close as possible to, the Size and Coverage Target Area for that size -
segment. For each size -segment, for each market, this is achieved as follows:  
* The companies in the Market Investable Equity Universe are sorted in descending 
order of full market capitalization.  
* The cumulative free float -adjusted capitalization coverage of the Market 
Investable Equity Universe is calculated at each company.  
* MSCI notes the respective full market capitalization of the companies that 
provide the following free float -adjusted market capitalization coverage for the 
relevant size -segments:  
 Large Cap Index:   70%  
 Standard Index:   85%.  
 Investable Market Index:  99%.  
* If the full market capitalization of the relevant company lies within the Global 
Minimum Size Range for the size -segment, then:  
Investable Equity 
UniverseDeveloped Markets 
Global Minimum Size 
ReferenceEmerging Markets Global 
Minimum Size Reference 
(50% of DM)Frontier Markets 
Global Minimum Size 
Reference
Aug-24 Aug-24 Aug-24
Universe
Large Cap
37,585 18,793 714
Mid Cap
11,039 5,519 276
Small Cap
872 436 19
All market caps are in USD millions. Data as of the close of July 18, 2024
The Developed Markets and Frontier Markets Global Minimum Size References are calculated based on the Developed Markets and Frontier Markets Investable Equity 
Universes, respectively.Percent of Free Float 
Adjusted Market 
Coverage
70%
85%
99%Global Minimum Size Reference
  The full market capitalization of the relevant company defines the Market Size -Segment Cutoff for 
that size -segment at that point in time.  
 The number of companies with full market capitalization greater than or equal to the relevant 
company provides the Segment Number of Companies, which will be used to maintain the indexes 
over time.  
* If it is not, then:  
 The number of companies is decreased until the full market capitalization of the smallest company in 
the size -segment is equal or higher than the lower bound of the Global Minimum Size Range for that 
size-segment. Or,  
 The number of companies is increased to include all companies with a full market capitalization 
higher than the upper bound of the Global Minimum Size Range for that size -segment.  
 The full market capitalization of the last company defines the Market Size -Segment Cutoff for that 
segment and the Segment Number of Companies is set to this company's rank.  
This process is designed to give priority to global size integrity over market coverage 
in situations where both objectives cannot be achieved simultaneously.  
For the Investable Market Index, at initial construction, the above process is not 
followed in order to provide as broad a coverage as possible without sacrificing size 
integrity. At initial construction the Market Size -Segment Cutoffs and associated 
Segme nt Number of Companies of the Investable Market segment are derived by 
including all companies equal to or larger than the Global Minimum Size Reference 
for the Investable Market Indexes.  
Since Size -Segment Indexes are based on company full market capitalization, all 
securities of a company are always classified in the same size -segment. As a result, 
there may be more securities than companies in a given size -segment.  
The Market Size -Segment Cutoffs and Segment Number of Companies are 
maintained daily, and updated at Index Reviews, additionally taking into account 
index stability and continuity rules.  
2.3.4  Assigning Companies to the Size -Segments  
At initial construction, all companies with full market capitalization greater than or 
equal to that of the full market capitalization of the company that defines the Market 
Size -Segment Cutoff are assigned to that size -segment.  
At  Index Reviews, the company assignment rules additionally take into account, new 
additions, and index continuity and stability rules.  
Between Index Reviews, the assignment of companies resulting from corporate 
events (e.g., mergers, IPOs, spin -offs) to the appropriate size -segments are based on 
 Market Size -Segment Cutoffs that are updated daily. This process is described in 
Sub-section 3. 2: Ongoing Event -Related Changes .   
2.3.5  Determining Market Size -Segment Cutoffs and Assigning Companies to 
the Size -Segments : Example  
 
Example:  
For the USA Standard segment, companies are counted in 
descending order of full market capitalization starting with the largest 
company. Companies continue to be counted until the cumulative 
free float -adjusted market capitalization of the companies reaches 
85% of the free float -adjusted market capitalization of the US Market 
Investable Equity Universe. In this example, the full market 
capitalization of the last company counted is within the Global  
Minimum Size Range. The rank of this company in the US Market 
Investable Equity Universe (645) defines the Segment Number of 
Companies for the size -segment and its full market capitalization 
(USD 4.1 billion) defines the Market Size -Segment Cutoff between  
Standard and Small Cap segments in the US.  
  
 
Example:  
For the Hungary Standard segment, companies are counted in 
descending order of full market capitalization starting with the largest 
company. Companies continue to be counted until the cumulative 
free float -adjusted market capitalization of the companies re aches 
85% of the free float -adjusted market capitalization of the Hungary 
Market Investable Equity Universe. In this example, the full market 
capitalization of the last company counted is significantly above the 
upper bound of the Global Minimum Size Range . All companies in 
Hungary, above the upper bound are added resulting in the 
cumulative free float -adjusted market capitalization coverage above 
90%, the upper bound of the Market Coverage Target Range.  The 
rank of the last company counted (4) defines the  Segment Number of 
Companies and its full market capitalization (USD 3.8 billion) defines 
the Size -Segment Cutoff between the Hungary Standard and Small 
Cap Indexes. The next largest company has a full market 
01,0002,0003,0004,0005,0006,00028.6%50.3%63.2%71.6%77.1%80.8%83.8%86.0%87.9%89.6%90.9%92.1%93.0%93.9% (90%,2.03 B)(80%,4.67 B) (90%,4.67 B)
Standard Index Small Cap IndexSmallest Company in the 
Standard Index
Standard Index Size and Coverage
 Target Area and
HigherUSA
(80%,2.03 B)Company Full Market Capitalization
Cumulative Free-Float Adjusted Market Capitalization 
Coverage
Global Minimum Size Range
Market Coverage Target Rangec
 capitalization of USD 941 million, below the lower bound of the Global 
Minimum Size Range.  
 
2.3.6  Applying Final Size -Segment Investability Requirements  
To enhance the replicability of Size -Segment Indexes , additional size -segment 
investability requirements are set for the Investable Market and the Standard 
Indexes . 
2.3.6.1  MINIMUM FREE FLOAT MARKET CAPITALIZATION REQUIREMENT  
If the Market Size -Segment Cutoff is within the Global Minimum Size Range for the 
Investable Market Index, a security can be included in the Investable Market Index 
only if its free float -adjusted market capitalization is at least 50% of the Market Size -
Segment Cutoff for the Investable Market Index. In the case of the Market Size -
Segment Cutoff being above the Global Minimum Size Range upper boundary for the 
Investable Market Index, the security's free float -adjusted market capitalization must 
be at least 50% of the upper boundary of the Global Minimum Size Range for the 
Investable Market Index. In the case of the Market Size -Segment Cutoff being below 
the Global Minimum Size Range lower boundary for the Investable Market Index, the 
05001,0001,5002,0002,5003,0003,5004,0004,5005,00043.9%77.4%86.2%96.3%97.9%99.0%99.6%100.0% 
(90%,1.01 B)   (80%, 2.33 B) (90%, 2.33 B)
Cumulative Free-Float Adjusted Market Capitalization CoverageCompany Full Market Capitalization
Standard Index Small Cap IndexSmallest Company in the 
Standard Index
Standard 
Index Size 
and 
Coverage
 Target Area and
HigherHungary
   (80%,1.01 B)
Global Minimum 
Size Range
Market 
Coverage 
Target Rangec
 security's free float -adjusted market capitalization must be at least 50% of the lower 
boundary of the Global Minimum Size Range for the Investable Market Index.  
If the Market Size -Segment Cutoff is within the Global Minimum Size Range for the 
Standard Index, a security can be included in the Standard Index only if its free float -
adjusted market capitalization is at least 50% of the Market Size -Segment Cutoff for 
the Standard Index. In the case of the Market Size -Segment Cutoff being above the 
Global Minimum Size Range upper boundary for the Standard Index, the security's 
free float -adjusted market capitalization must be at least 50% of the upper boundary 
of the Glo bal Minimum Size Range for the Standard Index. In the case of the Market 
Size -Segment Cutoff being below the Global Minimum Size Range lower boundary for 
the Standard Index, the security's free float -adjusted market capitalization must be at 
least 50% of t he lower boundary of the Global Minimum Size Range for the Standard 
Index. Any company excluded from the Standard Index based on this rule is also 
excluded from the Investable Market Index.  
For a security with a Foreign Inclusion Factor (FIF) lower than 0.15 to be included in 
the Standard Market Index, its free float -adjusted market capitalization must be at 
least 1.8 times the minimum free float -adjusted market capitalization required for th e 
Standard Index. Please refer to the Section 3.1.6.2  for details on assessing 
conformity with the Final Size -Segment Investability Requirements for existing 
constituents.  
2.3.6.2  MINIMUM FOREIGN ROOM REQUIREMENT  
For a security that is subject to a Foreign Ownership Limit (FOL) to be included in the 
Investable Market Index at its entire free -float adjusted market capitalization, the 
proportion of shares still available to foreign investors relative to the maximum 
allowed (referred to as "foreign room") must be at least 25%. If a security's foreign 
room is less than 25% and equal to or higher than 15%, MSCI will use an adjustment 
factor of 0.5 to reflect the actual level of foreign room to adjust the security's final  
foreign inclusion factor (FIF). As described in Sub -Section 2.2. 8, securities will not be 
eligible for inclusion in a Market Investable Equity Universe if the foreign room is less 
than 15%.  
The adjustment factor will be applied to the security actual FIF to arrive at the final 
FIF of the security. Conformity with the minimum free float -adjusted market 
capitalization requirements for Investable Market Index constituents will be 
assessed using the free float -adjusted market capitalization before  the application of 
the adjustment factor.  
 2.3.6.3  TREATMENT OF SECURITIES THAT EXHIBIT EXTREME PRICE INCREASE  
Securities that exhibit extreme price increase will not be eligible for addition into the 
Standard Indexes  but will continue to be  considered as  part of the  market  investable 
universe.  Such securities would be re -evaluated for Standard Index inclusion in the 
subsequent Index Review using Standard Index inclusion criteria, including the 
return -based thresholds for extreme price increase  as described below . 
For additions to the Standard indexes,  MSCI will evaluate their excess returns  for 
specific monitoring periods against relevant thresholds as per the below table.  A 
security  that breaches the threshold of any period  is considered to exhibit extreme 
price increase . 
Monitoring Periods and Thresholds for Extreme Price Increase  
Period*  5D 10D 15D 20D 25D 30D 35D 40D 45D 50D 55D 60D 
Excess 
Returns 
Threshold  100%  100%  100%  100%  200%  200%  200%  200%  400%  400%  400%  400%  
Period*  90D 120D 150D 180D 250D        
Excess 
Returns 
Threshold  500%  800%  1500%  1500%  2500%         
* Number of days  (Mon -Fri) prior to the price cutoff date of the Index Review  
** The extended measurement period of 90D, 120D, 150D, 180D and 250D is effective from May 2024 Index Review  
 
Excess return is calculated as the difference between the return of a security for the 
relevant period and the average return of IMI constituents belonging to the same 
country -sector where the security is classified (in terms of country of classification 
and GICS classification at the sector level). For country -sectors that have five or less 
IMI constituents, the relevant country IMI return is used instead.  
IPOs that do not meet the minimum length of trading requirements, but meet all 
other criteria for Standard Index inclusion are not subject to this requirement.  
  
 2.4 Index Continuity  Rules  
Index continuity is a desirable feature of an index as it avoids the temporary inclusion 
or exclusion of market indexes  in composite indexes  at different times. In order to 
achieve index continuity, as well as provide some basic level of diversification within 
a market index, notwithstanding the effect of other index construction rules 
contained herein, a minimum number of five constituents wi ll be maintained for a DM 
Standard Index and a minimum number of three constituents will be maintained for 
an EM Sta ndard Index. The application of this requirement involves the following 
steps.  
* If after the application of the index construction methodology, a Standard Index 
contains less than five securities in a Developed Market or three securities in an 
Emerging Market, then the largest securities by free float -adjusted market 
capitalization am ong the securities included in the Market Investable Equity 
Universe are added to the Standard Index in order to reach five constituents in 
that Developed Market or three in that Emerging Market.  
* At subsequent Index Reviews, if after the application of the index maintenance 
methodology a Standard Index contains less than five securities in a Developed 
Market or three securities in an Emerging Market, then the remaining securities 
are selected for i nclusion in the Standard Index using the following process:  
 The securities included in the updated Market Investable Equity Universe are identified  
 These securities are ranked by descending free float -adjusted market capitalization, however in order 
to increase index stability the free float -adjusted market capitalization of the securities included in the 
Standard Index prior to the Index Review  is multiplied by a factor of 1.5  
 The securities are added to the Standard Index in order to reach five constituents for a Developed 
Market or three for an Emerging Market in the ranking order determined in the step above  
Please note that the index continuity rules are applicable only to the Standard Market 
Indexes. Other indexes, such as Large, Mid or Small Market Indexes or indexes based 
on the GICS segmentation may have as little as one constituent. Also such indexes 
may be discontinued if there are no constituents left in accordance with the MSCI 
GIMI methodology. Similarly, MSCI may re sume calculation of such indexes if over 
time some companies become eligible for inclusion.  
  
 2.5 Constructing and Calculating the Individual MSCI Global 
Investable Markets Indexes  
2.5.1  Market Size -Segment Indexes  
After companies are allocated to their respective Size -Segments (section 2.3.4) and 
securities are reviewed for complying with the Final Size -Segment Requirements 
(section 2.3. 6), the final list of constituents for  each  of the  Market Size -Segment 
Indexes is determined.  
The MSCI Investable Market Indexes are composed of the MSCI  Standard Indexes 
and the MSCI Small Cap Indexes. The MSCI Standard Indexes are further subdivided 
into the MSCI Large Cap and the MSCI Mid Cap Indexes.  
For example, the MSCI USA IMI, MSCI USA  Index, MSCI USA  Large Cap Index, MSCI 
USA  Mid Cap Index, MSCI USA  Small Cap Index.  
2.5.2  Composite Indexes14  
Two or more Market Indexes can be combined to form Composite Indexes.  
Market Indexes can be grouped either on the basis of Market Classification15 
definition, geographical regions, economic regions or other criteria. For example,  by 
combining all Market Indexes from each Market Classification, i.e. Developed, 
Emerging and Frontier Markets, we obtain the MSCI World16, the MSCI Emerging 
Markets and the MSCI Frontier Markets Indexes respectively for each size -segment.  
Examples of regional or other types of indexes grouping multiple markets are the 
MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the MSCI North America Index or the MSCI GCC Index. 
Market Classification grouping can also be overlaid with regional grouping. Some 
examples would be the MSCI EM Asia Index or the MSCI All Countries17 Americas 
Index. Some regional indexes may be formed by excluding specific markets, for 
instance, MSCI World ex USA Index or the MSCI Asia Pacific ex Japan Index. A list of 
standard defined Regions can be found in https://www.msci.com/index -country -
membership -tool. MSCI may also create custom regions at client's request.  
 
14 Composite Indexes covered in this section refer to market capitalization weighted indexes created by 
combining individual Market Indexes.  
15 Please refer to Appendix II for the MSCI Market Classification Framework.  
16 The MSCI World Index is made up of all the Markets Indexes classified as Developed Markets.  
17 All Countries include both Developed Markets and Emerging Markets Indexes.  
 2.5.3  GICS -Based Indexes  
All securities in the Global Investable Equity Universe are assigned to the industry 
that best describes their business activities. To this end, MSCI has designed, in 
conjunction with S&P Dow Jones Indices , the Global Industry Classification Standard 
(GICS). The GICS currently consists of 11 Sectors, 2 5 Industry Groups, 74 
Industries and 1 63 Sub-Industries. Under the GICS, each company is assigned 
uniquely to one Sub-Industry according to its principal business activity.  
Narrower Indexes may be derived from each MSCI Market, Regional or Composite 
Indexes based on the industry classification of each company as defined by the 
Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS). The indexes may contain securities 
belonging to spec ific Sectors, Industry Groups, Industries, Sub-Industries or a 
combination of these. For example, MSCI Japan Energy Index, MSCI Japan Media 
Index, MSCI Japan Financials Index. Also , indexes can be created by combining the 
country grouping described in Sub -section 2. 5.2 above with GICS classification. As 
an illustration, the MSCI EM Asia Utilities Index is a GICS -based Index carved out of a 
broader Composite Regional Index.  
2.5.4  Other Indexes  
Indexes can also be segregated based on security attributes such as share type or 
exchange of listing, among others. Some examples of Share Type -based Indexes 
include the MSCI China B, the MSCI China Red -Chip, the MSCI China P -Chip Indexes 
as well as the M SCI DR Indexes (see Appendix XI). The China All Shares ex Shenzhen 
Listed Shares Index is an example of an index that is based on the exchange of 
listing.  
2.5.5  Calculating the MSCI Global Investable Markets Indexes  
Once the constituents for each MSCI Market, Regional, Composite and/or GICS -
based Indexes are determined, the Index Levels may then be calculated. The MSCI 
Index Calculation Methodology book describes MSCI's general Index calculation 
methodology for the MSCI Equity Indexes. For more information, please refer to the  
MSCI Index Calculation Methodology document, available at: 
https://www.msci.com/index -methodology . 
 
 3 Maintaining the MSCI Global Investable Market 
Indexes  
The MSCI Global Investable Market Indexes  are maintained with the objective of 
reflecting the evolution of the underlying equity markets and segments on a timely 
basis , while seeking to achieve:  
* Index continuity,  
* Continuous investability of constituents and replicability of the indexes, and  
* Index stability and low index turnover.  
In particular, index maintenance involves:  
* Quarterly  Index Reviews (Index Reviews ) in February, May , August  and November 
of the Size -Segment  Indexes which include:  
 Updating the indexes on the basis of a fully refreshed Equity Universe.  
 Taking buffer rules into consideration for migration of securities across size and style segments.  
 Updating Foreign Inclusion Factors (FIFs) and Number of Shares (NOS).  
* Ongoing event -related changes. Changes of this type are generally implemented 
in the indexes as they occur. Significantly large IPOs are included in the indexes 
after the close of the company's tenth day of trading.  
Any index constructed on the basis of the GIMI methodology may be subject to 
potential concentration and other limitations resulting from changes in the 
underlying markets. Any such potential limitations of an existing methodology may 
be assessed as part o f the Index Review  process.  
3.1 Quarterly  Index Reviews  
The objective of the Index Review s is to systematically reassess the various 
dimensions of the Equity Universe for all markets on a fixed quarterly  timetable. A n 
Index Review  involves a comprehensive review of the Size -Segment Indexes . 
During each  Index Review , the Equity Universe is updated and the Global Minimum 
Size Range is recalculated for each size -segment. Then, the following index 
maintenance activities are undertaken for each market:  
* Updating the Market Investable Equity Universe.  
* Recalculating the Global Minimum Size References and Global Minimum Size 
Ranges  
 * Reassessing the Segment Number of Companies and the Market Size -Segment 
Cutoffs.  
* Assigning companies to the size -segments taking into account buffer zones.  
* Assessing conformity with Final Size -Segment Investability Requirements.  
* The MSCI Global Investable Market Indexes  may follow light re balancing rules 
(Light Rebalancing) at an Index Review if the criteria set in Appendix VIII: Market 
Monitoring Framework and Potential Switch to a Light Rebalancing under 
Conditions of Market Stress are met.  
3.1.1  Updating the Equity Universe  
During each Index Review , the Equity Universe is updated by identifying new equity 
securities that were not part of the Equity Universe at the previous  Index Review and 
classifying them into countries.  
Details on the determination of the Equity Universe are in Sub-section 2.1: Defining 
the Equity Universe .  
3.1.2  Updating the Market Investable Equity Universes  
During each Index Review , the Market Investable Equity Universes are updated by:  
* Reviewing the list of countries in which securities may be represented by foreign 
listings  
* Evaluating each security that is not a  constituent of the Investable Market 
Indexes  for investability using the same investability screens described in Sub -
section 2.2:  Determining  the Market Investable Equity Universe s. Existing 
constituents  of the Investable Market Indexes , on the other hand, are evaluated 
using buffers around these investability requirements as explained below.  
3.1.2.1  ELIGIBILITY OF FOREIGN LISTINGS  
Foreign listings may become eligible to represent securities only from the countries 
that met the Foreign Listing Materiality Requirement at least two Index Reviews prior . 
This requirement is applied to the countries that do not yet include securities 
represented by foreign listings.  
Please refer to Appendix IV: Foreign Listing Materiality Requirement  for further 
details.  
 3.1.2.2  UPDATING THE EQUITY UNIVERSE MINIMUM SIZE REQUIREMENT  
The Equity Universe Minimum Size Requirement is updated at each Index Review  in 
the following manner:  
The cumulative free float -adjusted market capitalization coverage at the company 
rank that was used to define the Equity Universe Minimum Size Requirement at the 
previous rebalance is calculated.  
If the coverage of the updated DM Equity Universe at that rank falls:  
* Between 99% and 99.25%, the Equity Universe Minimum Size Requirement is set 
to the current full market capitalization of the company at that rank.  
* Below 99%, the Equity Universe Minimum Size Requirement is reset to the full 
market capitalization of the company at 99% coverage and the rank of that 
company is noted for the next rebalance.  
* Above 99.25%, Equity Universe Minimum Size Requirement and rank are reset 
based on the full market capitalization of the company at 99.25% coverage.  
The same Equity Universe Minimum Size Requirement is used for both Developed 
and Emerging Markets.  
 
Example:  
Suppose that at the previous Index Review  the Equity Universe 
Minimum Size Requirement was set at USD 145 million and reflected 
the full market capitalization of the company ranked as the 8008th 
largest company by full market capitalization in the DM Equity 
Universe. Say that in the current Index Review , the full market 
capitalization of the company at the 8008th rank is USD 151 million 
and the cumulative free float -adjusted market capitalization 
representation at that company's rank is 98.9%. In addition, suppose 
the top 8201 companies cover 99.0% of the free float -adjusted 
market capitalization and the full mark et capitalization of the 
company at the 8201st rank is USD 147 million. Then USD 147 million 
is set as the new Equity Universe Minimum Size Requirement.  The 
full market capitalization of the company at the 8201st rank will be 
the initial reference for the next Index Review . 
 
New companies are evaluated relative to this updated threshold, whereas all existing 
constituents will not be evaluated relative to this investability requirement.  
 3.1.2.3  UPDATING THE EQUITY UNIVERSE MINIMUM FREE FLOAT -ADJUSTED MARKET 
CAPITALIZATION  
The Equity Universe Minimum Free Float -Adjusted Market Capitalization Requirement 
is calculated as 50% of the updated Equity Universe Minimum Size Requirement.  
Non constituents of the IMI  are evaluated relative to this updated threshold, whereas 
all existing constituents will not be evaluated relative to this investability 
requirement.   
3.1.2.4  MINIMUM LIQUIDITY REQUIREMENT FOR EXISTING CONSTITUENTS  
Non constituents of the Investable Market Indexes are evaluated relative to the 
thresholds described in section 2.2.5.  
An existing constituent of the Investable Market Indexes  may remain in a Market 
Investable Equity Universe if its 12 -month ATVR falls below the Minimum Liquidity 
Requirement as long as it is above 2/3rd of the minimum level requirement of 20% 
for Developed Markets and 15% for Emerging Markets, i.e., 13.3% and 1 0%, 
respectively. In addition, in order to remain in the Investable Market Indexes  the 
existing constituent must have:  
* The 3 -month ATVR of at least 5%;  
* The 3 -month Frequency of Trading of at least 80% for Developed Markets and 
70% for Emerging Markets.  
If the listing used for an existing constituent no longer meets the above liquidity 
requirements, other eligible listings that do meet such liquidity requirements will be 
used to represent the security in the Market Investable Equity Universe. If the secur ity 
has two or more other eligible listings, the following priority rules would be used to 
determine which of such listings will be used to represent the security in the Market 
Investable Equity Universe:  
* Local listing18 
* Foreign listing in the same geographical region19 
 
18 If the security has two or more  local listings, then the listing with the highest 3 -month ATVR would be used . 
19 MSCI classifies markets into three main geographical regions: EMEA, Asia Pacific and Americas.  If the 
security has two or more foreign  listings  in the same geographical region , then the listing with the highest 3 -
month ATVR would be used . 
 * Foreign listing in a different geographical region20. 
 
Changes in listing from a foreign listing to a local listing for existing constituents will 
be applied even if the foreign listing still meets the liquidity requirements, in cases 
where the local listing has a 12 -month ATVR above two times the minimum level 
requirement of 20% for Developed Markets and 15% for Emerging Markets, i.e., 40% 
and 3 0%, respectively . Such change s from a foreign listing to a local listing for 
existing index constituents will only be considered  when data from previous twelve 
months i s available for calculat ion of  the 12 -month ATVR.  
If an existing constituent of a Standard Index in Emerging Markets fails to meet the 
liquidity requirements, but has a weight of more than 10% in the respective country 
index and its float adjusted market capitalization is above 0.5 times the Global 
Minimu m Size Reference for Emerging Markets, then such constituent will remain in 
the index. However, MSCI would apply a Liquidity Adjustment Factor of 0.5 to the 
weight of the security, and in the subsequent Index Review , MSCI:  
* Would delete the security from the index if the security does not meet all liquidity 
requirements for existing constituents calculated after applying the Liquidity 
Adjustment Factor or  
* Would maintain the secur ity in the GIMI and remove the Liquidity Adjustment 
Factor if the security meets all the liquidity requirements for new constituents, 
calculated before applying the Liquidity Adjustment Factor for three  consecutive 
Index Reviews or  
* Would continue maintaining the security in the GIMI with the Liquidity Adjustment 
Factor of 0.5 if none of the above conditions are met  
3.1.2.5  GLOBAL MINIMUM FOREIGN INCLUSION FACTOR REQUIREMENT  
New securities with a FIF lower than 0.15 are included in the Market Investable Equity 
Universe if their  free float -adjusted market capitalization meets  1.8 times half of the 
Standard Index Interim Market Size -Segment Cutoff. Interim Market Size -Segment 
Cutoffs are calculated daily in order to determine eligibility for early inclusion of 
securities. They are based on the current Market Investable Equity Un iverse (please 
refer to section 3. 2.1: Determining the Interim Market Size -Segment Cutoffs for Daily 
Maintenance for more details).  
 
20 If the security has two or more foreign  listings  in a different geographical region , then the listing with the 
highest 3 -month ATVR would be used . 
 All existing constituents will not be evaluated relative to this investability 
requirement.   
3.1.2.6  MINIMUM FOREIGN ROOM REQUIREMENT  
New securit ies that are subject to a Foreign Ownership Limit (FOL) are eligible for 
inclusion in the Market Investable Equity Universe if foreign room  of the securities is 
at least 15%. All existing constituents will not be evaluated relative to this 
investability requirement.    
3.1.2.7  MINIMUM LENGTH OF TRADING REQUIREMENT  
New securities that do not meet the minimum length of trading requirement as 
described in Section 2.2.7  are included in the Market Investable Equity Universe  only 
if their  full market capitalization and  free float -adjusted market capitalization meet 
1.8 times and 1.8 times half of the Standard Index Interim Market Size -Segment 
Cutoff  respectively . 
All existing constituents will not be evaluated relative to this investability 
requirement.  
3.1.3  Recalculating the Global Minimum Size References and Global Minimum 
Size Ranges  
The Global Minimum Size References and corresponding ranges are reset at the 
Index Review s using a process similar to the one used to update the Equity Universe 
Minimum Size Requirement. More details may be found in    
 Appendix X: Updating the Global Minimum Size References and Ranges . 
3.1.4  Reassessing the Segment Number of Companies and the Market Size -
Segment Cutoffs  
The Segment Number of Companies and the corresponding Market Size -Segment 
Cutoffs are updated to account for changes in each Market Investable Equity 
Universe.  
3.1.4.1  DETERMINING INITIAL SEGMENT NUMBER OF COMPANIES  
If the Interim Market Size -Segment Cutoff21 is equal to or above the lower bound of 
the Global Minimum Size Range, then the Initial Segment Number of Companies is 
equal to the number of companies in the updated Investable Equity Universe with the 
full company market capitalization equal  to or above the Interim Market Size -
Segment Cutoff. If the Interim Market Size -Segment Cutoff is below the lower bound 
of the Global Minimum Size Range , then the Initial Segment Number of Companies is 
equal to the sum of:  
* The number of companies in the updated Investable Equity Universe with the full 
company market capitalization equal or above the lower bound of the Global 
Minimum Size Range and;  
* The number of companies in the updated Investable  Equity  Universe that were 
also part of the corresponding Size -Segments prior to the Index Review  with the 
full market capitalization below the Global Minimum Size Range, but equal to or 
above the Interim Market Size -Segment Cutoff.  
This Initial Segment Number of Companies takes into account the newly eligible 
companies as well as deletions from the updated Investable  Equity  Universe.  
3.1.4.2  CHANGES IN THE SEGMENT NUMBER OF COMPANIES  
The full market capitalization of the company ranked in the updated Market 
Investable Equity Universe at the Initial Segment Number of Companies and the 
 
21 The Interim Market Size -Segment Cutoff during an Index Review  is calculated the same way as the Interim 
Market Size -Segment Cutoffs, which are reported daily, however the Number of Shares and Foreign Inclusion 
factor post Index Review  are used in the calculations and the value is not limited by the Global Minimum Size 
Range.  Furthermore, if the Interim Market Size -Segment Cutoff is lower than the Equity Universe Minimum Size 
Requirement, then the Interim Market Size -Segment Cutoff is s et to the Equity Universe Minimum Size 
Requirement.  
 cumulative free float -adjusted market capitalization coverage at this company rank 
are used to verify that the Initial Segment Number of Companies falls either:  
* within the Size and Coverage Target Area for the Size -Segment Index or  
* within the Lower or Upper Size Range Boundary Proximity Areas, which span 
from 0.5 times to 0.575 times and from one time to 1.15 times the Global 
Minimum Size Reference respectively (please refer to the diagram below for 
more details).  
If it does, the Segment Number of Companies post Index Review  becomes equal to 
this Initial Segment Number of Companies, and the full market capitalization 
corresponding to the smallest company in the Segment Number of Companies 
becomes the Market Size -Segment Cutoff for that market and is used in this Index 
Review . The Segment Number of Companies is also equal to the Initial Segment 
Number of Companies in the cases when the full company market capitalization of 
the company corresponding to the Initial Segm ent Number of Companies is above 
the Global Minimum Size Range and there are no investable companies between this 
company and the upper boundary of the Global Minimum Size Range.  
 
 
Changing Segment Number of Companies  
 
 
Nb. of Companies
  
Additions No Changes
DeletionsLow er Size Range Boundary Proximity AreaFull Market Capitalization
Upper Size Range Boundary Proximity Area
80% 85% 90%
Cumulative Free Float -Adjusted Market Coverage 0.50X GMSR0.575X GMSRGMSR1.15x GMSR
 If the Initial Segment Number of Companies falls outside of the size and coverage 
target area, the Initial Segment Number of Companies is changed to bring it closer to 
the area. In making this change, consideration is given to index stability and index 
turnover, which may impact the ability of Market Size -Segment Cutoffs to fall within 
the Size and Coverage Target range.  
Depending on the location of the Market Size -Segment Cutoff derived from the Initial 
Segment Number of Companies relative to the Size and Coverage Target Area, an 
increase in, or a reduction of, the Segment Number of Companies may be required.  
* When the Market Size -Segment Cutoff is above the upper boundary of the Global 
Minimum Size Range and there are investable companies between the company 
corresponding to the Initial Segment Number of Companies and the upper 
boundary of the Global Minimum Si ze Range, or the Market Size -Segment  Cutoff  
is below the lower boundary of the Market Coverage Target Range, additions to 
the Size -Segment Index are needed.   
* When the Market Size -Segment Cutoff is below the lower boundary of the Global 
Minimum Size Range, or above the Market Coverage Target Range, deletions 
from the Size -Segment Index are needed.    
The process for adjusting the Segment Number of Companies is as follows:  
* If additions to the Segment Number of Companies are required:  
 The number of companies is increased to include all companies with a full market capitalization 
higher than the upper boundary of the Global Minimum Size Range.  
 The number of companies is increased to include all companies with a full market capitalization 
higher than the upper limit of the Lower Size Range Boundary Proximity Area, if any, that are required 
to reach the lower boundary of the Market Coverage Target  Range.22 
 The additions are made in descending order of full market capitalization.  The full market 
capitalization of the last added company then becomes the Market Size -Segment Cutoff. If the full 
market capitalization of the last added company is above the upper boundary of the Global Minimum 
Size Range then the Market Size -Segment Cutoff is set at this upper boundary of the Global Minimum 
Size Range.  
* If a reduction of the Segment Number of Companies is required to reach the Size 
and Coverage Target Area, limits are placed on the decrease in the number of 
companies, to further enhance index stability. These limits are implemented in 
the following steps:  
 
22 This step is implemented even if it brings the Market Size -Segment Cutoff from below the lower boundary of 
the Market Coverage Target Range to above the upper boundary of the Market Coverage Target Range.  
  First, a reduction of no more than 5% of the Initial Segment Number of Companies is made to bring 
the Market Size -Segment Cutoff into compliance with the Size and Coverage Target Area. Only the 
companies with full company market capitalization lower than t he lower limit of the Upper Size Range 
Boundary Proximity Area can be removed.23 
 If this reduction brings the Market Size -Segment Cutoff into compliance with the Global Minimum 
Size Range, or removes at least half the free float -adjusted market capitalization that lies between the 
smallest company before the adjustment of the Initial Segment Number of Companies and the lower  
bound of the Global Minimum Size Range, no further adjustment is necessary.  
 If not, then a reduction of not more than 20% of the Initial Segment Number of Companies is made to 
remove at most half the free float -adjusted market capitalization that lies between the smallest 
company before adjusting the Initial Segment Number of Comp anies and the lower bound.  
 In market segments with a small number of companies, the deletion of the first two companies is not 
subject to the limits described above. 23 
 When a limit is placed on the decrease in the number of companies, as explained above, the full 
market capitalization of the smallest company in the index will remain below the lower boundary of 
the Global Minimum Size Range. In this case, the Market Size -Segment Cutoff is set at this lower 
bound of 0.5 times the Global Minimum Size Reference instead of the size of the smallest company.  
3.1.5  Assigning Companies to Appropriate Size -Segments  
During a n Index Review , companies are assigned with the following priority to the 
Size -Segments until the Segment Number of Companies is achieved:  
* Current constituents of a given Size -Segment Index, as well as companies 
assigned to this Size -Segment during last Index Review that failed the Final Size -
Segment Investability Requirements, greater than or equal to the Market Size -
Segment Cutoff.  
* Newly investable companies with a full market capitalization greater than or 
equal to the Market Size -Segment Cutoff.  
* Companies greater than the upper buffer threshold24 of the lower Size -Segment 
that are:  
 Currently in the lower Size -Segment Index or  
 Assigned to this Size -Segment during last Index Review and failed the Final Size -Segment 
Investability Requirement or  
 Investable companies during last Index Review that were not assigned to any Size -Segment.  
 
23 A company with full market capitalization within the Global Minimum Size Range is not removed if the 
removal would bring the Market Size -Segment Cutoff from above the upper boundary of the Market Coverage 
Target Range to below the lower boundary of the Ma rket Coverage Target Range.  
24 Buffer zones for Size -Segments are explained in more detail in Section 3.1.5.1  
 * Current constituents of a given Size -Segment Index, as well as companies 
assigned to this Size -Segment during the last Index Review that failed the Final 
Size -Segment Investability Requirements, in the lower buffer of the Size -Segment 
in descending capital ization order, until the threshold of the buffer is reached.  
* The largest companies from the upper buffer of the next lower size -segment.  
Once companies have been assigned to the Standard, Large and Investable Market 
Segments, companies are then assigned to the Mid and Small Cap Segments. The 
Mid Cap Segment comprises the companies that are in the Standard Segment but 
not the Large Cap Segme nt. The Small Cap Segment comprises the companies that 
are in the Investable Market Segment but not in the Standard Segment.  
3.1.5.1  USING BUFFER ZONES TO MANAGE THE MIGRATION OF COMPANIES BETWEEN SIZE -
SEGMENT INDEXES  
In order to better reflect the investment processes of size managers, allow for timely 
representation of market developments when securities move far away from size -
segment thresholds, and help control index turnover, buffer zones are used to control 
the m igration of companies between Size -Segment Indexes .  
An existing constituent is generally allowed to remain in its current size -segment 
even if its full market capitalization falls below (above) the Market Size -Segment 
Cutoff that defines the  lower (upper) boundary of its segment, as long as its 
company full market capitalization falls within a buffer zone below (above) the 
Market Size -Segment Cutoff.  The buffer zones at Index Review s are defined with 
boundaries of 2/3rd of and 1.5 times the Market Size -Segment Cutoff between two 
size-segments25.  
In addition, a Small Cap Entry Buffer Zone is used for the entry in the Small Cap 
Indexes  of non -current constituents  of the IMI . It is defined with a boundary of 1.5 
times  the Market Size -Segment Cutoff for the Investable Market Index. The inclusion 
in the Small Cap Indexes  of all non-current constituents  of the IMI  above the 
Investable Market Size -Segment Cutoff could lead to an excessively large number of 
additions of small companies. Consequently, non-current constituents  of the IMI  
within the Small Cap  Entry Buffer Zone which are assigned to the Small Cap Segment 
are included in the Small Cap Indexes  only to the extent that they replace current 
constituents which have fallen below the Small Cap Lower Buffer. The remaining 
 
25 At "light" rebalancings, the buffer zones are set at one half of and 1.8 times the Market Size -Segment Cutoff 
between two size -segments.  
 companies are not included in the Investable Market Indexes , but are still taken into 
account to determine the Segment Number of Companies.  
Index Review  Buffers  
 
3.1.6  Assessing Conformity with Final Size -Segment Investability 
Requirements  
3.1.6.1  FOR NEW CONSTITUENTS   
Once companies are assigned to each size -segment, the securities of companies in 
each segment are evaluated for conformity with the additional size -segment 
investability requirements for each size -segment.  The securities of newly eligible 
companies and of  companies migrating from the lower segment are required to 
meet the additional investability requirements as described in Sub -section 2.3. 6: 
Applying Final Size -Segment Investability Requirements . 
In addition, IPOs eligible for early inclusion according to Sub -section 3. 2.4.1, and for 
which the effective date of inclusion is either 5 days before the effective date of the 
Index Review  or 3 days after, will be made effective to coincide with the Index 
Review . For example, when the effective date of inclusion of the IPO is November 28 
(3 business days before December 1), while the effective date of the Index Review  is 
December 1, the IPO will be added effective December 1.  
Large Cap
Mid Cap
Small Cap
Small Cap
Lower Buffer (-33%)Mid Cap/Standard
Lower Buffer (-33%)Large Cap
Lower Buffer (-33%)Mid Cap
Upper Buffer (+50%)
Small Cap
Upper Buffer (+50%)
Small Cap
Entry Buffer (+50%)
 For companies trading on a conditional basis (w hen-issued trading) prior to their  
listing and unconditional trading, MSCI assess es the inclusion of the company in the 
MSCI Indexes  based on its first day  of conditional trading.  
3.1.6.2  FOR EXISTING CONSTITUENTS   
Existing constituents may remain in the size -segment indexes  if they would 
otherwise fail the additional investability requirements for Free Float Market 
Capitalization described in Section 2.3. 6.1 but still meet 2/3rd of the threshold. 
Existing constituents of the Small Cap Index must have a FIF that is equal to or larger 
than 0.15 to remain in the index. Existing con stituents of the Standard Index  with FIF 
of less than 0.15 must meet 2/3rd of the 1.8 times of the minimum free float -adjusted 
market capital ization required for the Standard Index.  
Existing Standard Index constituents in the lower buffer that fail the additional 
investability requirements of the Standard Index are moved to the Small Cap Index. 
However, if  the company  has other investable securities that meet the additional 
investability requirements of the Standard Index, the company  is retained in the 
Standard Size -Segment and the securities failing the final size -segment investability 
requirements are not included in any of the indexes within the MSCI Global 
Investable Market Indexe s. 
Any other Standard Index constituent that fails these requirements is not included in 
any of the indexes  within the MSCI Global Investable Market Index es. 
Existing IMI constituents that exhibit extreme price increase (as per section 2.3.6.3) 
will not be eligible for migration into the Standard Indexes. Existing IMI constituents  
migrating into the Standard Index  and exhibiting  extreme price increase will be 
retained as Small Cap constituents.  
Current constituent securities for which there is less than 25% foreign room may 
have their weight adjusted  by the application of an adjustment factor to reflect their 
actual level of foreign room.  
The post -review adjustment factor depends on the current adjustment factor and the 
actual level of foreign room of the securities, as shown in the table below:  
 
  
 
If the foreign room of an existing constituent decreases below 3.75%, then the 
adjustment factor equal s 0.26  
In order to preserve index continuity, c onformity with the minimum free float -
adjusted market capitalization requirements for  existing IMI  Index constituents will 
be assessed using the free float -adjusted market capitalization before the 
application of the adjustment factor27. That is, existing constituents of the IMI  Index 
with FIF (before the application of the adjustment factor) of greater than  or equal to  
0.15 must meet 2/3rd of the minimum free float -adjusted market capitalization 
required for the Standard  or Small Cap  Index  to remain in the Standard or Small Cap 
Index, respectively . Existing constituents of the Standard Index with FIF (before the 
application of the adjustment factor) of less than 0.15 must meet 2/3rd of the 1.8 
times of the minimum free float -adjusted market capitalization required for the 
Standard Index  to remain in the Standard Index .  
Conformity with the minimum free float -adjusted market capitalization requirements 
for n on-current  IMI constituents will be assessed using the free float -adjusted market 
capitalization after the application of the adjustment factor.  
Foreign room level will be reviewed on a quarterly basis coinciding with the regular 
MSCI Index Reviews. Generally, an upward movement of the adjustment factor for 
 
26 Based on information available from the country regulatory authority,  the adjustment factor equals 0  for 
securities where further purchase s are restricted due to foreign ownership restriction.  In case of India, MSCI 
monitors securities appearing on the National Securities Depository Limited's (NSDL) & Central Depository 
Services Limited's (CDSL) official list of securities for which the Red flag or Breach limit has been reached on a 
daily basis. MSCI deletes secu rities from the MSCI India Indexes that are (i) Appearing on the Breach list (ii) 
Appearing on the Red Flag/Caution list and have foreign room below 3.75% by giving 2 business days' notice.  In 
the case of Mexico, MSCI monitors the foreign investments under the Neutral Trust Program (NTP). The NTP 
structure mandates foreign investors to acquire shares only through it. MSCI deletes securities from the MSCI 
Mexico Indexes having foreign room bel ow 3.75% by giving 2 business days' notice.  
27 Please note that this treatment is also applicable in the cases when Liquidity Adjustment Factor is applied as 
described in the section 3.1.2.4 and 5.2.3.2  
foreign room >= 
25%15% <= foreign 
room < 25%7.5% <= foreign 
room < 15%3.75% <= foreign 
room < 7.5%foreign room 
<3.75%
Current adjustment 
factor = 1 1 1 0.5 0.25 0
Current adjustment 
factor = 0.5 1 0.5 0.5 0.25 0
Current adjustment 
factor = 0.25 1 0.5 0.25 0.25 0Post-review adjustment factor
 existing constituents following a previous reduction in foreign room or index re -
inclusion of a security deleted as a result of having a foreign room lower than 3.75% 
will only be considered 12 months after the weight reduction or deletion; unless the 
upwa rd movement of the adjustment factor is primarily driven by a change in FOL 
and provided that the increase in FOL28 happened prior to the Price Cutoff Date of the 
previous Index Review described in Section 3.1.9.  
For example, to be considered for the May Index Review , the potential increase in 
FOL must have happened before the Price Cutoff Date of the February Index Review . 
During a regular Index Review, for any existing IMI constituents whose weight is 
decreased as a result of a change in the adjustment factor due to low foreign room, 
MSCI will continue to monitor any potential increased foreign room due to an 
increase in FO L27 until five business days before the effective date of that Index 
Review.  
3.1.7  Index Review of Changes in Foreign Inclusion Factors (FIFs)  
During an Index Review, changes in FIFs can result from events that occurred or were 
not captured in the course of the previous quarter covering changes in all aspects of 
shareholder information used to estimate free float. Changes in free float estimates 
and corresponding FIFs are reflected in the indexes on a quarterly basis at the February, 
May, August and November Index Reviews. All FIF changes are reflected in the indexes 
provided the change in free float is more than 1% or in cases of corrections.  In addition, 
all FIF changes are reflected  for additions to the Standard/Small Cap Size -Segments, 
additions to the Micro Cap Index and deletions from the Standard Size -Segment as 
part of the Index Review.  
FIF changes are implemented as part of a given Index Review if the changes take place 
prior to the Price Cutoff Date (as defined in Sub -Section 3.1.9) of that Index Review. In 
cases of changes effective after the Price Cutoff Date, the implementation would 
generally be postponed to the next closest Index Review.  
MSCI may implement the changes as part of a given Index Review even if they are 
effective after the Price Cutoff Date. Such changes may be announced by MSCI until 
3 business days before the Index Review effective date.  
 
28  Applicable only for securities still subject to FOLs. For example, if the FOL increases to 100% (i.e., FOL is no 
longer applicable) prior to the Price Cutoff Date, it will be reflected in the upcoming Index Review.  In the case of 
India,  MSCI would consider potential increases in FOL based on data published by Central Depository Services 
Limited's (CDSL) and National Securities Depository Limited's (NSDL) . For securities that are not covered by the 
list provided by the CDSL/NSDL, FOL will be determined based on publicly available data.  
 3.1.8  Index Review of Changes in Number of Shares (NOS)  
During an Index Review, changes in NOS may result from events that occurred or were 
not captured in the course of the previous quarter. Changes in NOS are generally 
updated on a quarterly basis at the February, May, August and November Index 
Reviews rather  than at the time of the event, provided the absolute NOS change is at 
least 1,000 shares or relative NOS change is at least 0.02%.  
Changes in NOS, are implemented as part of a given Index Review if they take place 
prior to the Price Cutoff Date (as defined in Sub -Section 3.1. 9) of that Index Review. 
In cases of changes effective after that date, the implementation would generally be 
postponed to the next closest Index Review.  
MSCI may implement the changes as part of a given Index Review even if they are 
effective after the Equity Universe Cutoff Date. Such changes may be announced by 
MSCI until 3 business days before the Index Review effective date.  
3.1.9  Date of Data Used for Index Review s 
The standard data cutoff dates for the Index Reviews  are as follows:  
* Equity Universe Cutoff Date: the last business day of November for the February  
Index Review, the last business day of February  for the May Index Review, the last 
business day of May for the August Index Review,  and the last business day of 
August for the November Index Review . This is the relevant cutoff date fo r: 
 Data used to update the Equity Universe as per Sub -section 2.1: Defining the Equity Universe;  
 Data used for calculating the updated Equity Universe Minimum Size Requirement as per Sub -section 
3.1.2.2: Updating the Equity Universe Minimum Size Requirement;  
* Liquidity Cutoff Da te: the last business day of December for the February Index 
Review, the last business day of March for the May Index Review, the last 
business day of June for the August Index Review,  and the last business day of 
September for the November Index Review . This is the relevant cutoff date for 
data used for the liquidity calculations, such as ATVRs and frequency of trading.  
* Price Cutoff Date: any one of the last 10 business days29 of January for the 
February Index Review, of April for the May Index Review, of July for the August 
 
29 If the effective date of the Index Reviews is within the announcement month, in such scenario Price Cutoff 
Date would also prepone accordingly by the same number of business days. For example, if the effective date 
of the November 2024 Index Review is Nove mber 26, 2024, the price cutoff date will be any one of the 10 
business days from October  14, 2024 to October  25, 2024.  
 Index Review  and of October for the November Index Review . This is the relevant 
cutoff date for:  
 Prices used for calculating market capitalization;  
 Data used to update FIFs as per Sub -section 3. 1.7: Index Review of changes in F oreign Inclusion 
Factors (FIF s); 
 Data used to incorporate all foreign room changes.  
 Data used to update NOS as per Sub -section 3 .1.8: Index Review of changes in Number of Shares 
(NOS).  
* A business day is defined as a day from Monday to Friday where markets 
cumulatively constituting more than 80% of the MSCI All Countries World Index 
free float -adjusted market capitalization are expected to be open  on the basis of 
a security's country of listing30.  
As a general rule, price movements after the Price Cutoff Date will not impact the 
results of the Index Review . However, in cases of extraordinary events or news 
related to a specific company identified as a migration between the size -segments or 
as an addition to the IMI based on the Index Review  Price Cutoff Date MSCI may 
decide not to change the company's size -segment allocation.  In such instances, the 
company would either be maintained in its current size -segment or not added to the 
IMI. Examples of su ch extraordinary events or news are allegations of fraud, 
falsification of accounting data or news on a takeover bid resulting in a significant 
reduction (or increase) in company's market capitalization between the Index Review  
Price Cutoff Date and the announcement date or/and in its suspension for an 
undetermined period. Market cap fluctuations or suspensions of trading after the 
Index Review  announcement date typically would not result in the reversion of an 
already announced decision on the company's si ze-segment allocation. The policy 
on implementation of the Index Review  changes for securities suspended around the 
Index Review  implementation dates is stated in Appendix V II of this document.  
MSCI monitors the full company market capitalization (issuer level) of companies in 
the Market Investable Equity Universes on a monthly basis as a part of its ongoing 
maintenance. The full company market capitalization is the aggregate security 
market capitalization of all listed securities of an issuer that are included in the MSCI 
Equity Universe, as well as all unlisted securities of such issuer that exhibit 
characteristics of equity securities.   
 
30 Currently, only Stock Connect eligible China A shares are included in the MSCI GIMI. Therefore, the China A 
share market will only be considered open if the Shanghai Stock Exchange, the Shenzhen Stock Exchange and 
the Stock Connect program are open .  
 Full company market capitalization = S (Number of shares of listed security 
lines*Price) + S (Number of shares of unlisted security lines*Price of reference listed 
security line*Conversion factor).  
The conversion factor is an estimate of the economic value of the unlisted shares 
relative to the economic value (i.e., price) of the reference listed shares. Generally, 
MSCI uses publicly available information such as the exchange ratio of unlisted 
shares  to the listed shares, relative dividend rights  or relative par value , among 
others,  to derive this conversion factor. Unlisted securities with no economic rights 
are not included in the computation of full company level market capitalization.  
Additional s ecurities of existing index constituents identified by the tenth business 
day of a given month will be introduced on the third business day of the following 
month. Please note that Number of Shares (NOS), Foreign Inclusion Factors (FIF) 
and weights in the MSCI indexes are not affected by the updates.  
Please note that updates due to ongoing maintenance of securities' share classes, 
share types and alternate listings are implemented on the third business day of the 
month.  
Please refer to  Appendix IX: Policies Regarding Trading Suspensions and Market 
Closures during Index Reviews  for details on MSCI's policy regarding market 
closures during Index Review s. 
  
 3.2 Ongoing Event -Related Changes  
Ongoing event -related changes to the indexes are the result of mergers, acquisitions, 
spin -offs, bankruptcies, reorganizations and other similar corporate events. They can 
also result from capital reorganizations in the form of rights issues, bonus issues,  
public placements and other similar corporate events that take place on a continuing 
basis. These changes generally are reflected in the indexes at the time of the event.  
These corporate events affect many aspects of an index and its constituents, 
including inclusion or deletion of companies outside of the Index Reviews, weight 
changes due to changes in FOLs, FIFs, NOS, etc., and changes in size, style and/or 
industry class ification.  
To evaluate the impact of changes resulting from events on the assignment of 
companies into size -segments, it is necessary to maintain the Market Size -Segment 
Cutoffs and Segment Number of Companies on a daily basis as described below.  
The handling of ongoing event -related changes can be classified in two broad 
categories:  
* Corporate events affecting existing index constituents, described in Sub -section 
3.2.3 below.  
* Corporate events affecting non -index constituents, described in Sub -section 3. 2.4 
below.  
The technical details relating to the handling of specific corporate event types can be 
found in the MSCI Corporate Events Methodology book available at: 
https://www.msci.com/index -methodology  
3.2.1  Determining the Interim Market Size -Segment Cutoffs for Daily 
Maintenance   
For the purpose of determining eligibility for early inclusion of securities, such as 
significant  IPOs31, and/or assigning a company and its securities post a corporate 
event, e.g., mergers and spin -offs, to the appropriate Size -Segment Index an Interim 
Size -Segment Cutoff is used. To derive this number the following steps are followed:  
* The Global Minimum Size References and Global Minimum Size Ranges of the 
Large Cap, the Standard, and the Investable Market Indexes  are updated daily as 
described in    
 
31 As described in section 3. 2.4.1 
 * Appendix X: Updating the Global Minimum Size References  and Ranges  
* On a daily basis, each Market Size -Segment Cutoff is set to be the full market 
capitalization of the company of the rank equal to the Segment Number of 
Companies for that Size -Segment in the Market Investable Equity Universe.  
* The Interim Market Size -Segment Cutoff is set to:  
 The lower bound of the Global Minimum Size Range, if the Market Size -Segment Cutoff is below the 
lower bound.  
 The upper bound of the Global Minimum Size Range, if the Market Size -Segment Cutoff is above the 
upper bound.  
 The Market Size -Segment Cutoff, if it is within the Global Minimum Size Range.  
The daily values for the Market Size -Segment Cutoffs, the Segment Number of 
Companies and the Global Minimum Size Range are based on data from the previous 
trading day.  
3.2.2  Updating the Segment Number of Companies   
If a company is added or deleted from a size -segment as a result of a corporate 
event, the Segment Number of Companies is correspondingly increased or 
decreased.  
3.2.3  Corporate Events Affecting Existing Index Constituents  
Corporate events can affect existing index constituents in various ways:  
* Changes in Foreign Inclusion Factor (FIF), number of shares or industry 
classification for existing constituents.  
* Changes in size or style segment classification as a result of a large corporate 
event.  
* Early inclusions of non -index constituents.  
* Early deletions of existing index constituents.  
3.2.3.1  CHANGES IN FIF, NUMBER OF SHARES OR INDUSTRY CLASSIFICATION FOR EXISTING 
CONSTITUENTS  
In order to ensure that the index accurately reflects the investability of the underlying 
securities, it is a general policy to coordinate changes in number of shares with 
changes in FIF.  
 When two companies merge, or a company acquires or spins -off another company, 
the free float of the resulting entity is estimated on a pro forma basis, using the pro 
forma number of shares if applicable, and the corresponding FIF is applied 
simultaneously with the event. When there is a subsequent public disclosure 
regarding the new shareholder structure, which results in different free float 
estimation than that made at the time of the event, the FIF will be updated at the next 
Index Review. Other corporat e events, which result in a change in shareholder 
structure or FOLs and FIFs, are reflected in the indexes  simultaneously with the 
implementation of the event in the index. Pending NOS and/or float changes, if any, 
are implemented simultaneously with the event.  
Decreases in FOLs  or Foreign Room  in which foreign investors are obliged to 
immediately sell shares in the market  or when further purchases are no longer 
allowed  will be reflected in the indexes  as soon as possible . In cases where the FOL 
change results in a FIF decrease below 0.15, the security will be deleted  unless it is a  
Standard Index constituent with free float -adjusted market capitalization meeting at 
least  2/3rd s of the 1.8 times one half of the Standard Index Interim Size -Segment 
Cutoff . 
Changes in NOS and FIF resulting from primary equity offerings representing at least 
5%, 10% or 25% for Standard constituents (as well as securities assigned to Standard 
size segment but failed to be added to the Index), Small Cap constituents (as well as 
securities assigned to Small Cap size segment but failed to be added to the Index) 
and Micro Cap constit uents (as well as listed securities not assigned to any size 
segment) respectively  of the security's pre -event number of shares are implemented 
as of th e close of the first trading day of the new shares, if all necessary information 
is available at that time. Otherwise, the event is implemented as soon as practicable 
after the relevant information is made available.  
MSCI implements pending number of shares and/or free float updates 
simultaneously with the event. Note that if the number of shares update is smaller 
than + -1% on a post -event number of shares basis, it will be implemented at a 
subsequent Index Review.  
Note that contrary to secondary offerings, primary equity offering s involve the 
issuance of new shares by a company.  
Changes in the number of shares smaller than 5%, 10% and 25% are implemented at 
a subsequent Index Review. Such cases will be subject to the rules applicable for the 
Index Reviews in accordance with the section 3. 1.8 of the MSCI GIMI methodology.  
Secondary offerings/block sales with sizes representing at least 5%, 10% or 25% for 
Standard constituents (as well as securities assigned to Standard size segment but 
 failed to be added to the Index), Small Cap constituents (as well as securities 
assigned to Small Cap size segment but failed to be added to the Index) and Micro 
Cap constituents (as well as listed securities not assigned to any size segment) 
respectively of the security's pre -event number of shares are implemented at the 
time of the event with two full business days advance notification provided that 
sufficient post -event information is publicly available.  
Secondary offerings/block sales that do not meet the above conditions at the time of 
the event are considered for implementation at the subsequent Index Review. Such 
cases will be subject to the rules applicable for the Index Reviews in accordance with 
the section 3.1.7 of the MSCI GIMI methodology.  
Changes in industry classification resulting from a  large  corporate event are 
implemented simultaneously with the event. Other changes in industry 
classifications are implemented at the end of the month.  
3.2.3.2  CHANGES IN SIZE SEGMENT, STYLE SEGMENT OR INDUSTRY CLASSIFICATION AS A RESULT 
OF A LARGE CORPORATE EVENT   
In order to reflect significant  changes in the market capitalization of existing 
constituents in the Global Investable Market Indexes  and in the World All Cap 
Indexes  in a timely fashion while minimizing index turnover, the Size -Segment 
classification of a security is reviewed simultaneously with the event, if the market 
capitalization change implied by the event, including potential update in the number 
of shares for the security, is deemed significant .   
A significant  market capitalization change is defined as an increase of 50% or 
greater, or a decrease of 33% or more, relative to the company's full market 
capitalization before the event.  
The company's post -event full market capitalization is then compared to the Interim 
Size -Segment Cutoffs in order to determine the classification of that security in the 
appropriate size -segment. The final decision is taken at the time of the completion of 
the event or, if the event is not effective yet, at the time of the confirmed 
announcement and is based on the latest market information available at the time of 
the analysis, including the latest NOS, FIF, and market prices.  
In addition, the securities must pass the investability screens described in Sub-
section 2.2 Determining  the Market Investable Equity Universe s. 
Moreover, to be added to the Investable Market Index, the securities must meet the 
minimum foreign room requirement for the Investable Market Index described in 
Sub-section 2.3. 6.2 Minimum Foreign Room Requirement . 
 For a security to be added to the Standard Index, the free float -adjusted market 
capitalization must be at  least 50% of the Standard Interim Size -Segment Cutoff.  
For a security to be added to the Small Cap Index, the free float -adjusted market 
capitalization must be at least 50% of the Small Cap Interim Size -Segment Cutoff.  
If a Small Cap constituent is considered for a size -segment migration to the Standard 
Index due to a significant  market capitalization increase, and would qualify to be 
included in the Standard Index in terms of full company market capitalization but not 
in terms of security float -adjusted market capitalization, MSCI may decide to 
maintain the company in the Small C ap Index provided that its full company market 
capitalization remains below 1.5 times the Standard Interim Size -Segment Cutoff . 
However, a World Micro Cap Index constituent is not considered for a size -segment 
migration to the Small Cap Index or Standard Index due to a significant  market 
capitalization increase at  the time of the event but at Index Reviews, unless there is a 
merger or acquisition of a Small Cap Index constituent or a Standard Index 
constituent with or by a World Micro Cap Index constituent.  
If there is a significant market capitalization change due to any corporate event for a 
World Micro Cap Index constituent, MSCI deletes the constituent from World Micro 
Cap Index if its post -event full market capitalization is above the Small Cap Interim 
Size -Segment Cutoff  and float -adjusted market capitalization is above (at least) half 
the Small Cap Index Interim Size -Segment Cutoff. However, MSCI may decide to 
maintain the company in the World Micro Cap Index provided that its post -event full 
market capitalization remains below 1.5 times the Small Cap Index Interim Size -
Segment Cutoff and its float - adjusted market capitalization does not meet one half 
of the Small Cap Index Interim Size -Segment Cutoff.  
If the company is added to, or removed from a size -segment, then it results in an 
increase or a decrease in the Segment Number of Companies for the size -segment.  
For these significant  events, if the post -event entity moves from being a non -
constituent to a constituent of the Global Investable Market Indexes , the style 
characteristics  and industry classification  of the affected securities are reviewed. 
The same applies for the post -event entity that migrates from the World Micro Cap 
Index or the Small Cap Index to an upper Size -Segment Index. If the post -event entity 
moves from the Standard Index to the Small Cap  Index or remains in the same Size -
Segment Index (with the Large and Mid Cap Indexes  being considered as one size 
index), the style characteristics and industry classification of the affected securities 
are not reviewed. If the post -event entity moves from the Standard Index or Small 
Cap Index to the World Micro Cap Index, the style characteristics of the affected 
 securities are removed as there are no style characteristics for the World Micro Cap 
constituents.  
The guidelines regarding significant  market capitalization changes described above 
apply in most corporate events cases. For certain corporate events where the 
outcome is uncertain such as acquisitions for shares or non -renounceable rights 
issues, or combinations of different types of corpor ate events, or other exceptional 
cases, MSCI determine s the most appropriate implementation method and 
announce s it prior to the changes becoming effective in the indexes . 
3.2.3.3  EARLY INCLUSIONS OF NON -INDEX CONSTITUENTS  
When there is a corporate event affecting index constituents, non -index constituents 
that are involved in the event are considered for immediate inclusion in the MSCI 
Global Investable Market Indexes, as long as they meet all the index constituent 
eligibility r ules and guidelines described in Sub -sections 2.2 and 2.4 with the 
exception of the length of trading and liquidity screens  and minimum foreign room 
requirement. Such non -index constituents are treated as a continuation of index 
constituents and are s ubject to foreign room thresholds as defined in section 3.1.6.2 
applicable for existing constituents . 
For example, if a non -constituent company acquires a constituent company, the 
constituent company's securities may be replaced by the securities of the acquiring 
company. Similarly, if a constituent company merges with a non -constituent 
company, the merged  company may replace the constituent company. In addition, if 
a constituent's share class is converted into another share class that is new or 
currently not in the index, this new share class can be included in the index to replace 
the current share class.  However, when an index constituent is distributing rights to 
acquire a non -index constituent at a subscription price, MSCI does not include the 
non-index constituent at the time of the event, especially if the post -event 
information of the new entity is n ot complete and publicly available.  
Such non -index constituents are generally included in the same size -segment and 
Value and Growth Indexes as the affected index constituents, since they are 
considered to be a continuation of the index constituents. However, if the difference 
between the po st-event market capitalization of the non -index constituents and the 
respective index constituents is deemed significant, as discussed in Sub -section: 
3.2.3.2, a size -segment review is conducted for the non -index constituents. A style 
review is conducted i f the non -index constituents are included to different Size -
Segment Indexes  from the affected index constituents. Thereafter, the non -index 
constituents are included in the appropriate Size -Segment Indexes  by comparing the 
company's post -event full market capitalization with the Interim Market Size -
 Segment Cutoff, and in the appropriate style indexes  based on their style attribution 
within the relevant Size -Segment Indexes. In particular, the company post -event full 
market capitalization must be above at least 1 time the Interim Market Size -Segment 
Cutoff and the security free float -adjusted market capitalization must be above at 
least 50% of the Interim Market Size -Segment Cutoff.  
Securities spun -off from existing constituents are also considered for inclusion at the 
time of the event. Size -segment review and industry classification review are 
systematically conducted for all spun -off securities from existing Global Investable 
Market Index constituents provided that they pass all the investability screens 
described in Sub -section 2.2 with the exception of the length of trading and liquidity 
screens. In addition, the fre e float -adjusted market capitalization of securities added 
to the  Standard Index must be at least 50% of the Standard Index Interim Size -
Segment Cutoff. For a security to be added to the Small Cap Index, the free float -
adjusted market capitalization must be at least 50% of the Small Cap Interim Size -
Segment Cutoff. Secu rities spun -off from the World Micro Cap Index are also 
considered for inclusion at time of the event, but only for the World Micro Cap Index 
size-segment. For a security to be added to the World Micro Cap Index, the free float -
adjusted market capitalizati on must be at least 50% of the Micro Cap Minimum Size 
Requirement for Existing Constituents as described in Sub -section 4.1.2  A style 
review is performed for spun -off securities if they are included in different Size -
Segment Indexes  from the spinning -off securities and/or the spinning -off securities 
move to other Size -Segment Indexes  at the time of the event. No style reviews are 
performed for spun -off securities that are considered to be included in the World 
Micro Cap Index, as there are no style characteristics for the World Micro Cap 
constituents. Thereafter, the spun -off securiti es are included in the appropriate Size -
Segment Indexes  by comparing the company's post -event full market capitalization 
with the Interim Market S ize-Segment Cutoff, and in the appropriate style indexes  
based on their style attribution within the relevant Size -Segment Indexes . 
3.2.3.4  EARLY DELETIONS OF EXISTING CONSTITUENTS  
Securities of companies that file for bankruptcy, companies that file for protection 
from their creditors and/or are suspended and for which a return to normal business 
activity and trading is unlikely in the near future are removed from the MSCI Global 
Investable Market Indexes  as soon as practicable. Companies that fail stock 
exchange's listing requirements with announcements of delisting from the stock 
exchanges are treated in the same way. When  the primary exchange price is not 
available, the securities  are deleted at an over -the-counter or equivalent market price 
when such a price is available and deemed relevant. If no over -the-counter or 
 equivalent price is available, the company is deleted at the lowest system price 
(0.00001) in the security's price currency . 
Securities may also be considered for early deletion in other cases, such as 
decreases in free float and FOLs, securities under prolonged suspension or when a 
constituent company acquires or merges with a non -constituent company or spins -
off another company.  
In practice, when a constituent company is involved in a corporate event which 
decreases by more than 33% the company's full market capitalization, the securities 
of the constituent company are considered for early deletion from the indexes  
simultaneously with the event. Securities are also considered for early deletion in 
cases of corporate events where the Foreign Inclusion Factor (FIF) of the security 
decreases or is expected to decrease below 0.15.  
Moreover, existing constituents of the Standard Index with a FIF already lower than 
0.15 may be considered for early deletion simultaneously with an event if the FIF 
further decreases due to the event.  
In cases of securities that are considered for early deletion, a security is removed 
from the indexes  if due to the event the security falls under one of the following 
scenarios:  
* The security no longer passes the investability screens described in Sub -sections 
2.2 and 4.1 (the security will be allocated to the World Micro Cap Index if it no 
longer passes the screens described in Sub -section 2.2 but still passes the 
screens describe d in Sub -section 4.1).  
* The security is a constituent of the Standard Index and would be maintained in 
the Standard Index based on its company's full market capitalization after the 
event, however its float -adjusted market capitalization does not meet 2/3rd of one 
half of the Standard Index Interim Size -Segment Cutoff .32 
* The security is a constituent of the Standard Index and would be migrated to the 
Small Cap Index based on its company's full market capitalization after the event, 
however its float -adjusted market capitalization does not meet one half of the 
Small Cap Ind ex Interim Size -Segment Cutoff.  
 
32 If the Standard Index constituent has a FIF lower than 0.15 after the event, the minimum float -adjusted 
market capitalization requirement is 2/3rds  of th e 1.8 times one half of the Standard Index Interim Size -
Segment Cutoff . 
 * The security is a constituent of the Small Cap Index and its float -adjusted market 
capitalization does not meet 2/3rd of one half of the Small Cap Index Interim Size -
Segment Cutoff following the event.  
* The security is a constituent of the Small Cap Index and would be migrated to the 
Standard Index based on its company's full market capitalization after the event, 
however its float -adjusted market capitalization does not meet one half of the 
Standard Inde x Interim Size -Segment Cutoff, while the company's full market 
capitalization after the event is at least 1.5 times the Standard Interim Size -
Segment Cutoff.  
* The security is a constituent of the World Micro Cap Index and post -event full 
market capitalization is at least 1 time Small Cap Index Interim Size -Segment 
Cutoff and the free float -adjusted market capitalization is at least one half of the 
Small Cap Inde x Interim Size -Segment Cutoff  
* The security is a constituent of the World Micro Cap Index and post -event full 
market capitalization is at least 1.5 times the Small Cap Index Interim Size -
Segment Cutoff  
Conversions of a constituent's share class into another share class may also result 
in the deletion of one or more share classes from the indexes . 
For securities that are suspended, the market price immediately prior to the 
suspension is carried forward during the suspension period.  
3.2.4  Corporate Events Affecting Non -Index Constituents  
3.2.4.1   IPOS AND OTHER EARLY INCLUSIONS  
In many cases, newly listed equity securities available to foreign investors are 
considered for inclusion in the MSCI Global Investable Market Indexes, according to 
MSCI's Global Investable Market Indexes methodology rules and guidelines, at the 
time of the Index Reviews. However, for IPOs, which are significant in size and meet 
all the MSCI inclusion criteria, an early inclusion, outside of the Index Reviews, may 
be considered for inclusion in the Standard Index. If the decisio n is made to include 
an IPO early, the inclusion is effective after the close of the security's tenth day of 
trading. However, in certain cases, another date may be chosen for the inclusion to 
reduce turnover, for example, where the normal inclusion date i s close to the 
effective date of the next Index Review, as described in Sub -section 3.1.6.1 . 
 For companies trading on a conditional basis (when -issued trading) prior to their 
unconditional trading, MSCI intends to assess the inclusion of the company in the 
MSCI Indexes  on its first day of conditional trading.  
In order for an IPO and other newly eligible securities to qualify for an early inclusion 
to the Standard Index, a security must meet the index constituent eligibility rules and 
guidelines described in Sub -section 2.2  with the exception of the length of trading 
and liquidity screens , meet the  size-segment investability requirements described in 
Sub-section 2.3. 6.1 and have a company full market capitalization of at least 1.8 
times the Interim Market Size -Segment Cutoff and free float -adjusted market 
capital ization of at least 1.8 times one -half of the Interim Market Size -Segment 
Cutoff as of the close of its first or second trading day.33 
Any over -allotment (also called green shoe) publicly announced as exercised prior to 
MSCI's announcement on the first or second trading day is included in the IPO's 
market capitalizations calculations.  
Securities may also be considered for early inclusion in other significant  cases, 
including but not limited to those resulting from mergers and acquisitions  giving rise 
to a large new company or a large primary or secondary  public offering of an already 
listed security if the size of the offering exceeds the IPO threshold of 1.8 times one -
half of the Interim Market Size -Segment Cutoff. In the case of a large public offering 
(primary or secondary), the size of the offering is calculated by multiplying the is sue 
price applicable to institutional shareholders with the number of shares from the 
offer. Such cases will be treated in the same way as IPOs of significant size.  MSCI's 
decision will be based on information regarding the results of the offering and 
overallotment (exercised partially or fully), if any, made publicly available within up to 
2 business days after the close of the subscription period. If the decision is  made to 
early include a security, MSCI will include the security by giving 10 business day s' 
notice.  
However, securities becoming eligible following among others, for example, a pure 
change in the legal form, a conversion of share class, or a secondary listing in a new 
exchange, and for which there is no offering or no corporate events that could meet 
one of the conditions mentioned above, are not considered for early inclusion. 
Similarly, securities spun off from non -index constituent or initial listings without 
public offerings are not considered for early inclusion. Such cases are considered for 
inclusi on in the MSCI Global Investable Market Indexes, according to MSCI's Global 
 
33 IPOs with a FIF of less than 0.15 would have to meet the same criteria for early inclusion as IPOs with a FIF of 
0.15 or higher.  
 Investable Market Indexes methodology rules and guidelines, at the time of the Index 
Reviews.  
3.2.5  Corporate Events Affecting the Index Review  
Changes in Number of Shares (NOS) and Foreign Inclusion Factors (FIFs) due to 
corporate events for which the completion date is effective on or before the Index 
Review Price Cutoff Date (as defined in Sub -section 3.1.9 ) are taken into account 
when undertaking the index maintenance activities as part of Index Reviews (as 
described in Sub -section 3.1).  
For pro forma index constituents that are currently non -index constituents, changes 
in NOS and FIF due to corporate events for which the completion date is effective 
after the Index Review Price Cutoff Date (as defined in Sub -sections 3.1.9) will be 
implem ented as per the methodology applicable to the relevant pro -forma size 
segment.  
Some corporate events, such as, but not limited to,  additions to or deletions from the 
Indexes or corporate events that trigger a significant market capitalization  change 
relative to the company's full market capitalization before the event (increase of 50% 
or greater, or decrease of 33% or more), or corporate events that trigger a significant  
change in the float of the security  or decrease in  the Foreign Ownership Limit and 
Foreign room , may have an impact on the index changes announced at the time of 
the Index Reviews , such as migration, addition and deletion . In such situation and if 
the completion date of the corporate event is effect ive between the Index Review 
Price Cutoff Date and one month after the Index Review effective date, MSCI may 
amend the Index Review result and announcement to consider the impact of the 
corporate event, in order to avoid potential reverse turnover. MSCI ma y amen d the 
Index Review changes until five business days before the Index Review effective 
date.  
To communicate these amendments, a separate announcement will be sent to the 
clients either with the Index Review announcement or with the corporate event 
announcement depending on the announcement date of the event.  
MSCI reserves the right to handle specific cases differently if more appropriate.  
3.3 Announcement Policy  
The results of the Index Review s are announced at least two weeks in advance of 
their effective implementation dates , which are generally set at  the close of the last 
business day of February, May , August  and November.  
   
3.3.1  Ongoing Event -Related Changes  
3.3.1.1  CLIENT ANNOUNCEMENTS  
All changes resulting from corporate events are announced to clients prior to their 
implementation in the MSCI Global Investable Market Indexes.  
The changes are typically announced at least ten business days prior to these 
changes becoming effective in the indexes as "expected" announcements, or as 
"undetermined" announcements, when the effective dates are not known yet or when 
aspects of the event  are uncertain. MSCI sends "confirmed" announcements at least 
two business days prior to events becoming effective in the indexes provided that all 
necessary public information concerning the event is available. In case a "confirmed" 
announcement needs to be amended, MSCI sends a "correction" announcement with 
a descriptive text announcement to provide details about the changes made. MSCI 
also sends announcements in "Acknowledged" status within five business days 
following the public announcement by the com pany of the acquisition, if the impact 
is above one time the constituent's underlying country index Large Cap Cutoff.  
For certain events, MSCI only sends "confirmed" announcements, especially due to 
insufficient or lack of publicly available information or late company disclosure. For 
the MSCI World Micro Cap Index and the MSCI Frontier Markets Small Cap Index, 
MSCI only sends "confirmed" announcements at least two business days prior to 
events becoming effective in the index, provided that all necessary public 
information concerning the event is available.  
The full list of all new and pending changes is delivered to clients on a daily basis, 
between 5:30 PM and 6:00 PM US Eastern Time (EST) through the Advance 
Corporate Events (ACE) File.  
In exceptional cases, events are announced during market hours for same or next 
day implementation. Announcements made by MSCI during market hours are usually 
linked to late company disclosure of corporate events or unexpected changes to 
previously announced corporate events. A descriptive text announcement is sent for 
all corporate events effective on the same day or on the next day.  
MSCI also sends text announcement for corporate events effective within the next 48 
hours, except for market neutral events such as split, reverse split or stock dividend.  
Early deletions of constituents due to events such as bankruptcy are announced as 
soon as practicable prior to their implementation in the MSCI indexes.  
 For MSCI Global Standard Index constituents , a more descriptive text announcement 
is sent to clients for significant events that meet any of the following criteria:  
* Additions and deletions of constituents.  
* Changes in free float -adjusted market capitalization equal to or larger than USD 5 
billion, or with an impact of at least 1% of the constituent's underlying country 
index.  
No descriptive text announcement will be sent for the MSCI World Micro Cap Index 
constituents and Frontier Markets Small Cap Index constituents.  
However, if warranted, MSCI may make descriptive text announcements for events 
that are complex in nature and for which additional clarification could be beneficial 
for any Standard, Small Cap and Micro Cap Indexes . 
3.3.1.2  PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENTS  
All additions and deletions of constituents of the MSCI Global Investable Market 
Indexes  resulting from corporate events are publicly announced prior to their 
implementation.  
Other changes resulting from corporate events that affect constituents of the MSCI 
Global Investable Market Indexes , such as changes in the Foreign Inclusion Factor 
(FIF) and/or in the number of shares of a constituent, are not publicly announced but 
are announced only to clients.  
If warranted, MSCI reserves the right to make public announcements related to 
corporate events for special cases, such as the ineligibility of a security in the MSCI 
Global Investable Market Indexes . 
The changes are announced at least two business days prior to events becoming 
effective in the indexes . Public announcements are a summary of the "confirmed" 
announcements that are made to clients. Public announcements are made shortly 
before a "confirmed" client announcement is made.  
MSCI posts the announcements on its web site, www.msci.co m, and on Bloomberg 
page MSCN. In addition, announcements are posted on Reuters public pages MSCIA 
for MSCI Global Standard Index constituents and MSCI Domestic Standard Index 
constituents.  
 3.3.2  IPOs and Other Early Inclusions  
Early inclusions of large IPOs in the MSCI Standard Index Series are announced no 
earlier than the first day of trading and no later than before the opening of the third 
day of trading in the market where the company has its primary listing34.  
Early inclusions of already listed securities following large secondary offerings of 
new and/or existing shares are announced no earlier than shortly after the end of the 
offer period.  
It is MSCI policy not to comment on the potential inclusion of equity securities to be 
listed in the future, including their industry classification under the Global Industry 
Classification Standard (GICS), their country classification and their potential 
inclusion in an MSCI index. The same applies to non -index constituents that are 
already listed which have pending large events.  
3.3.3  Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS)  
Non-event related changes in industry classification at the Sub-Industry level are 
announced at least two weeks prior to their implementation in MSCI indexes as of 
the close of the last US business day of each month. MSCI announces GICS changes 
twice a month, the first announcement being made on the first US business day of 
the month and the second one being made at least ten US business days prior to the 
last US business day of the month. All GICS changes announced in a given month 
will be implemented in M SCI indexes as of the close of the last US business day of 
the month.  
 
34 Following the November 2019 Index Review , securities on the STAR Market  of the Shanghai Stock Exchange  
may be early included in the MSCI China All Shares and the MSCI China A Onshore Indexes outside of an Index 
Review  as per Section 6 of the MSCI Corporate Events Methodology. Early inclusion  of STAR Market securities  
in these MSCI Indexes will be announced no earlier than the second day of trading and no later than before the 
opening of the third day of trading after listing, provided the security meets the market capitalization thresholds 
as of the close of either fi rst or second trading day.  
 
 4 MSCI All Cap Indexes  
This section should be read in conjunction with the earlier Section 2 'Constructing the 
MSCI Global Investable Market Indexes ' and Section 3 'Maintaining the MSCI Global 
Investable Market Indexes '. 
The calculation of the MSCI All Cap Indexes  is currently limited to Developed 
Markets.  
4.1 Constructing the MSCI All Cap Indexes  
The MSCI All Cap Indexes  encompass all constituents of the MSCI Global Investable 
Market Indexes  as well as securities allocated to the MSCI Micro Cap Indexes . The 
construction of the MSCI Global Investable Market Indexes  is described in detail in 
previous sections.  
Constructing the MSCI All Cap Indexes  involves the following steps:  
* Constructing Global Investable Market Indexes as described in earlier sections.  
* Constructing a Micro Cap Index for each market as described below.  
* Aggregating the Global Investable Market Indexes with the Micro Cap Indexes.  
The Micro Cap Size -Segment is constructed by including all securities which are not 
part of the Global Investable Market Indexes  and meet the following requirements:  
* Micro Cap Maximum Size Requirement.  
* Micro Cap Minimum Size Requirement.  
* Micro Cap Minimum Liquidity Requirement.  
* Global Minimum Foreign Inclusion Factor Requirement.  
* Minimum Length of Trading Requirement.  
* Financial Reporting Requirement . 
Each of these screens is described in detail below.  
4.1.1  Micro Cap Maximum Size Requirement  
This screen is applied at the company level.  
A company with a full company market capitalization exceeding the Small Cap Entry 
Buffer (as defined in Sub -section 3.1.5.1) may not be allocated to the Micro Cap Size -
Segment.  
 4.1.2  Micro Cap Minimum Size Requirement  
This screen is applied at the company level.  
In order to be allocated to the Micro Cap Size -Segment, a company must have the 
required minimum full market capitalization and full security market capitalization. 
This minimum full market capitalization is referred to as the Micro Cap Minimum 
Size Requir ement and is applied to both full company market capitalization (issuer 
level) and full security market capitalization. This requirement applies to companies 
in all Developed Markets.  
The Micro Cap Minimum Size Requirement is derived using the same process as 
described in the Sub -section 2.2. 3 targeting cumulative free float -adjusted market 
capitalization coverage of 99.8% of the Developed Markets Equity Universe (as 
defined in Sub -section 2.1).  
4.1.3  Micro Cap Minimum Liquidity Requirement  
In order to be eligible for inclusion in the Micro Cap Size -Segment a security must 
have a 12 -month ATVR of at least 5% and a 12 -month frequency of trading of at least 
50%.  
4.1.4  Global Minimum Foreign Inclusion Factor Requirement  
This screen is applied at the individual security level.  
A security must have Foreign Inclusion Factors (FIFs) equal to or larger than 0.15 to 
be eligible for inclusion in the Micro Cap Size -Segment.  
Securities with a FIF equal to 0.15 or above will also be excluded if their free float -
adjusted market capitalization is less than Micro Cap Minimum Size Requirement for 
Existing Constituents threshold defined in the sub -section 4.2.1.2  
4.1.5  Minimum Length of Trading Requirement  
This screen is applied at the individual security level.  
For an IPO to be eligible for inclusion in the Micro Cap Size -Segment, the new issue 
must have started trading at least three months before the implementation date of 
an Index Review.  
4.1.6  Financial Report ing Requirement  
This screen is applied at the company level.  
 Companies classified in the United States as per Appendix III: Country Classification 
of Securities , must file a Form 10 -K/10 -Q to be eligible for inclusion in the Micro Cap 
Size -Segment . 
4.2 Maintaining  the MSCI All Cap Indexes  
Similar to the Large, Mid and Small Cap Size -Segments, Micro Cap Size -Segment 
index maintenance involves:  
* Quarterly Index Reviews  in February, May , August  and November which include:  
 Updating the indexes on the basis of a fully refreshed Equity Universe.  
 Taking buffer rules (as defined in Sub -section 3.1.5.1) into consideration for migration of securities 
across size segments.  
 Updating (FIFs) and Number of Shares (NOS).  
* Ongoing event -related changes. Changes of this type are implemented in the 
indexes as they occur. More information on the event -related changes can be 
found in the Corporate Events Methodology book  
4.2.1  Quarterly  Index Reviews  
As described in Section 3, during each  Index Review , the Equity Universe is updated 
and all size -segments of the Global Investable Market Indexes  are reviewed. The 
following index maintenance activities are undertaken as part of the Index Review  for 
the Micro Cap Size -Segment:  
* Updating the Micro Cap Minimum Size Requirement.  
* Assigning companies to the Micro Cap Size -Segment taking into account size 
and liquidity buffer zones.  
4.2.1.1  UPDATING THE MICRO CAP MINIMUM SIZE REQUIREMENT  
The Micro Cap Minimum Size Requirement is updated at each Index Review  in the 
following manner:  
The cumulative free float -adjusted market capitalization coverage at the rank of the 
company that was used to define the Micro Cap Minimum Size Requirement at the 
previous rebalance is calculated.  
If the coverage of the updated Developed Market Equity Universe at that rank falls:  
* Between 99.7% and 99.8%, the Micro Cap Minimum Size Requirement is set to 
the current full market capitalization of the company at that rank.  
 * Below 99.7%, the Micro Cap Minimum Size Requirement is reset to the full 
market capitalization of the company at 99.7% coverage and the rank of that 
company is noted for the next rebalance.  
* Above 99.8%, the Micro Cap Minimum Size Requirement and rank are reset 
based on the full market capitalization of the company at 99.8% coverage and 
the rank of that company is noted for the next rebalance.  
4.2.1.2  ASSIGNING COMPANIES TO THE MICRO CAP SIZE -SEGMENT  
All companies meeting the requirements outlined in Sub -sections 4.1.1 through 4.1.5 
which are not part of the Investable Market Size -Segments are assigned to the Micro 
Cap Size -Segment.  
Existing constituents of the Micro Cap Size -Segment may remain in the segment 
under the following conditions:  
* Company full market capitalization is not above the Small Cap Entry Buffer.  
* Company full market capitalization and security full market capitalization is 
greater than or equal to the lower of USD 10 million or the full market 
capitalization of the company at 99.95% coverage (Micro Cap Minimum Size 
Requirement for Existing Constitu ents).  
* FIF remains above or equal to 0.15.  
* 12-month frequency of trading is above or equal 10%.  
4.2.2  Ongoing Event -Related Changes  
Ongoing event -related changes to the indexes  are the result of mergers, acquisitions, 
spin -offs, bankruptcies, reorganizations and other similar corporate events. They can 
also result from capital reorganizations in the form of rights issues, bonus issues, 
public placements and other similar corpora te actions that take place on a 
continuing basis. These changes are reflected in the indexes  at the time of the event.  
The ongoing maintenance of the Micro Cap Size -Segment follows the process 
outlined in Sub -section  3.2. 
 5 MSCI Frontier Markets Indexes  
5.1 Frontier Markets Definition  
MSCI starts by considering all equity markets not included in the MSCI Emerging 
Markets Index, that:  
* demonstrate a relative openness to and accessibility for foreign investors  
* are generally not considered as part of the developed markets universe35 
* do not belong to countries undergoing a period of extreme economic (e.g., 
hyperinflation) or political instability (e.g., civil war)  
5.1.1  Updating MSCI Frontier Markets Index Coverage  
MSCI will on a regular basis monitor potential new markets that may qualify or 
current markets that may not qualify anymore for the MSCI Frontier Markets Index. 
Potential additions and deletions will be considered during the May Index Review.  
A Standalone Market Standard Index may be added to the MSCI Frontier Markets 
Index  at the earliest as part of the May Index Review that follows the creation of the 
Standalone Market Standard Index for that market.  Markets that meet the minimum 
requirements for inclusion in the MSCI Frontier Markets Indexes may  be added to the 
review list of markets for potential reclassification as part of the regular MSCI Market 
Classification Review . MSCI will announce the markets that will be included in 
Frontier Markets at least six months before the upcoming May Index Review.  
Please refer to Appendix II for more information on the Market Classification 
Framework.  
  
 
35 E.g. Luxembourg or Cyprus. These countries are part of the developed markets universe. Given their modest 
size these markets are not included in the MSCI World Index.  
 5.2 Methodology  Used to Construct and M aintain the MSCI 
Frontier Markets Indexes  
This section  should be read in conjunction with the earlier Section 2 'Constructing the 
MSCI Global Investable Market Indexes ' and Section 3 'Maintaining the MSCI Global 
Investable Market Indexes '. 
The methodology used to construct the MSCI Frontier Markets Indexes  is similar, but 
not identical, to the construction of the indexes  for Developed and Emerging 
Markets. One of the prime differences  is in the calculation of  size requirements 
including  the Equity Universe  Minimum Size Requirement and Global Minimum Size 
Reference s. Further, there are three levels of minimum liquidity requirements - very 
low, low, and average - to accommodate the divergent liquidity levels in Frontier 
Markets. See Appendix X for the countries that fall under each classification.  
More specifically, the methodological differences between the index construction for 
Frontier Markets countries and for countries constituting the MSCI ACWI Index are 
found in the following:  
* Calculation of the Equity Universe Minimum Size Requirement  
* Calculation of the Global Minimum Size Reference  
* Liquidity requirements resulting from categorization of Frontier Markets into very 
low, low or average liquidity markets  
* Index Continuity Rules  
* Implementation of Corporate Events  
In addition, the size segmentation into Large Cap and Mid Cap of the Standard Index 
is not offered for Frontier Markets with the exception of the MSCI Gulf Cooperation 
Council (GCC) Countries Indexes . 
More details on the methodological differences are described below.  
5.2.1  Equity Universe Minimum Size Requirement  
The Equity Universe Minimum Size Requirement for Frontier Markets is derived using 
the same steps described in sections 2.2.3  Equity Universe Minimum Size 
Requirement  and 3.1.2.2  Updating the Equity Universe Minimum Size Requirement , 
but is based on  the FM Equity Universe . 
 5.2.2  Global Minimum Size Reference  
The Global Minimum Size Refer ences for Frontier Markets  are derived using the 
steps described in sections 2.3.2 .1 Defining the Global Minimum Size Reference  and 
3.1.3  Recalculating the Global Minimum Size References and Global Minimum Size 
Ranges , but are based on the  FM Investable Equity Universe .  
The Global Minimum Size References for the Large Cap, Standard, and Investable 
Market segments based on  the most recent index review are available in section 
2.3.2.1  Defining the Global Minimum Size Reference.  
5.2.3  FM Minimum Liquidity Requirement  
5.2.3.1  CATEGORIZATION OF FRONTIER MARKETS INTO VERY LOW, LOW OR AVERAGE LIQUIDITY 
MARKETS  
In order to account for the differences in liquidity patterns across Frontier Markets, 
each Frontier Market is categorized as a very low, low or average liquidity market.  
The corresponding minimum liquidity requirement levels are set at 2.5%, 5% or 15% 
12-month ATVR, respectively. In addition, a minimum level of 50% of 12 -month 
Frequency of Trading is required for the inclusion of a security in an Investable 
Market Equity Universe of a Frontier Market for all liquidity categories.  This rule is 
referred to as the Frontier Markets Minimum Liquidity Requirement.   
The categorization of each country is reviewed during the Index Reviews.  
For each Frontier Market MSCI considers the following factors:  
* The proportion of the country's IMI (in terms of number of constituents and 
weight) deleted from the index due to failing the liquidity requirements  
* The proportion of the country's Equity Universe (in terms of number of 
constituents and weight) not included in the IMI due to failing the liquidity 
requirements, and how it compares to other Frontier Markets  
* The average liquidity level for the country's Equity Universe, and how it compares 
to other Frontier Markets  
* The country's historical liquidity level trends and how they compare to other 
Frontier Markets  
* The size and number of constituents in the country IMI Index relative to other 
Frontier Markets  
 5.2.3.2  MINIMUM LIQUIDITY REQUIREMENT FOR EXISTING CONSTITUENTS  
During Index Reviews, existing constituents of the IMI in average and low liquidity 
markets may remain in a Market Investable Universe if their 12 -month ATVR stays 
above 2/3rd of the minimum level requirement of 15% for average liquidity markets 
and 5% for low liquidity markets. Existing constituents of the IMI in very low liquidity 
markets may remain in a Market Investable Universe if their  12-month ATVR stays 
above 1%. Furthermore, in order to remain in the Investable Market Indexes (IMI), a 
constituent o f the MSCI Frontier Markets IMI will need to have a 12 -month Frequency 
of Trading of at least 10%, applicable to all liquidity categories.  
If the listing used for an existing constituent no longer meets the above liquidity 
requirements, other eligible listings that do meet such liquidity requirements will be 
used to represent the security in the Market Investable Equity Universe. If the secur ity 
has two or more other eligible listings, the following priority rules would be used to 
determine which of such listings will be used to represent the security in the Market 
Investable Equity Universe:  
* Local listing36 
* Foreign listing in the same geographical region37 
* Foreign listing in a different geographical region38. 
Changes in listing from a foreign listing to a local listing for existing constituents will 
be applied even if the foreign listing still meets the liquidity requirements, in cases 
where the local listing has a 12 -month ATVR  above 30% for average liquidity markets 
or 15% for low liquidity and very low liquidity markets , respectively. In addition, the 
local listing needs to have a  12-month Frequency of Trading of at least  50%. 
If an existing constituent of a Standard Index  in Frontier  Markets fails to meet the 
liquidity requirements, but its float adjusted market capitalization is above 0.5 times 
the Global Minimum Size Reference for Frontier  Markets  and its weight is either : 
* More than 10% in the respective country index  or 
 
36 If the security has two or more  local listings, then the listing with the highest 3 -month ATVR would be used . 
37 MSCI classifies markets into three main geographical regions: EMEA, Asia Pacific and Americas.  If the 
security has two or more foreign  listings  in the same geographical region , then the listing with the highest 3 -
month ATVR would be used . 
38 If the security has two or more foreign  listings  in a different geographical region , then the listing with the 
highest 3 -month ATVR would be used . 
 * More than 1% in the Frontier Markets  Composite Index , 
then such constituent will remain in the index. However, MSCI would apply a Liquidity 
Adjustment Factor of 0.5 to the weight of the security, and in the subsequent Index 
Review , MSCI:  
* Would delete the security from the index if the security does not meet at least 
half of the liquidity requirements for existing constituents calculated after 
applying the Liquidity Adjustment Factor or  
* Would maintain the secu rity in the GIMI and remove the  Liquidity Adjustment 
Factor if the security meets all the liquidity requirements for new constituents, 
calculated before applying the Liquidity Adjustment Factor for three  consecutive 
Index Reviews or  
* Would continue maintaining the security in the GIMI with the Liquidity Adjustment 
Factor of 0.5 if none of the above conditions are met  
5.2.4  Index Continuity Rules  
If after the application of the index construction methodology, a Standard Index does 
not contain  any security , then the largest security  by free float -adjusted market 
capitalization among the securities included in the Market Investable Equity Universe 
is added to the Standard Index . 
At subsequent Index Reviews, if after the application of the index maintenance 
methodology a Standard Index does not contain  any security , then the following 
process  is applied : 
* The securities included in the updated Market Investable Equity Universe are 
identified , 
* These securities are ranked by descending free float -adjusted market 
capitalization, however in order to increase index stability the free float -adjusted 
market capitalization of the securities included in the Standard Index prior to the 
Index Review  is multiplied by a factor of 1.5 , 
* The first securit y in the ranking order determined in the step above  is adde d to 
the Standard Index.  
Please note that the index continuity rules are applicable only to the Standard Market 
Indexes. Other indexes, such as Large, Mid or Small Market Indexes or indexes based 
on the GICS segmentation may be discontinued if there are no constituents left in 
accordance with the MSCI GIMI methodology. Similarly, MSCI may resume 
 calculation of such indexes if over time some companies become eligible for 
inclusion.  
5.2.5  Implementation of Corporate Events  
The ongoing maintenance of the Frontier Markets Indexes  follows the same process 
as Developed and Emerging Markets, outlined in Sub -section 3. 2. 
As a general policy, changes resulting from corporate events are implemented in the 
MSCI Equity Indexes  as they occur simultaneously with the event, provided that all 
necessary public information concerning the event is available. However, changes 
resulting from corporate events in the Frontiers Market countries that could not be 
implemented on or near the effective dates - especially due to insufficient or lack of 
publicly available information - and where no price adjustment factor (PAF) is 
necessary, are  implemented at the following regularly scheduled Index Reviews. 
Examples of such corporate events may include amongst others share placements 
and offerings.  
  
 6 MSCI Standalone Market  Indexes  
MSCI Standalone Market Indexes are broadly classified into two groups: newly 
eligible markets and markets previously classified under Developed, Emerging or 
Frontier Markets categories, reclassified to Standalone status. Newly eligible 
markets may either b e new markets, previously not covered by MSCI or markets that 
were closed to a specific group(s) of investors.  
6.1 Creation of S tandalone  Market Indexes for Newly Eligible 
Markets  
MSCI will consider the creation of Standalone Market Indexes for countries not 
currently covered by MSCI during the May Index Review. These markets must 
demonstrate a relative openness and accessibility for foreign investors and are not 
undergoing a period  of extreme economic or political instability.  
A Standalone Market Standard Index may be created for countries having a minimum 
of two companies with securities meeting the requirements for the Frontier Markets 
Standard Index.  
A Standalone Market Investable Market Index (IMI) may be created for a market 
having a minimum of one company with securities meeting the requirements for the 
Frontier Markets Standard Index, and a minimum of two companies with securities 
meeting the requi rements for the Frontier Markets Small Cap Index.  
MSCI also considers the availability and accuracy of market data when deciding on 
the potential creation of Standalone Market Indexes for countries not currently 
covered by MSCI.  
The creation of such MSCI Standalone Market Indexes would generally not require a 
client consultation.  
6.2 Classification of Other Markets as S tandalone  
MSCI may also temporarily reclassify markets that are currently part of the 
Developed Markets, Emerging Markets or Frontier Markets as a Standalone Market in 
the case of severe deterioration in market accessibility or size and liquidity for that 
market.  
Reclassification of such markets may take place within or outside any regular Index 
Review cycles. The timing of such reclassification would generally be determined 
through client consultations and communicated with sufficient lead -time before 
implementati on. 
 6.3 Maintaining Standalone Market I ndexes  
MSCI Standalone Market Indexes are governed by the methodology applicable to the 
MSCI Country Indexes classified as Developed, Emerging or Frontier Markets.  
While newly eligible markets are generally maintained using criteria used for Frontier 
Markets, rules applicable to other market categories may apply depending on the 
size and liquidity of a particular market at the time of the creation of the Standalone 
Market Index.  
For markets reclassified from Developed, Emerging or Frontier Markets, MSCI would 
generally apply the methodology that was applicable to the market prior to the 
reclassification to Standalone status. In any event, MSCI would clarify the 
maintenance rules f or the MSCI Country Indexes which are subject to 
reclassification.  
6.4 Inclusion of Standalone Market Indexes in the MSCI  Composite  
Indexes  
6.4.1  Inclusion of Newly Eligible Markets  
In general, Standalone Market Index es covering newly eligible markets may be added 
to the MSCI Frontier Markets Index es at the earliest as part of the  May  Index Review 
that follows the creation of the Standalone Market Standard Index for that market.  
Please refer to section 5.1.1 for more details on Updating Frontier Markets Coverage. 
Markets that meet the minimum requirements for inclusion in the MSCI Frontier 
Markets Indexes may be added to the review list of markets for potential 
reclassification as part  of the regular MSCI Market Classification Review . MSCI will 
announce the markets that will be included in Frontier Markets at least six months 
before the upcoming May Index Review.  
Some Standalone Markets may nevertheless exhibit higher level of market 
accessibility and economic development than Frontier Markets. In addition, these 
markets may meet the size and liquidity requirements of Developed or Emerging 
Markets. In such instance s, MSCI may include the Standalone Market Indexes in the 
MSCI Developed Markets or Emerging Markets Indexes. MSCI will review the market 
classification of such Standalone Markets at the regular MSCI Market Classification 
Review and determine whether such m arkets may be classified in the Developed 
Markets or Emerging Markets Indexes only following a client consultation.  
 6.4.2  Re-inclusion of Markets in the MSCI Composite Indexes  
MSCI generally reviews the Market Classification of Standalone Markets previously 
included in the MSCI Composite Indexes as part of the MSCI Annual Market 
Classification Review. Their potential re -inclusion in the MSCI Developed Markets, 
Emerging Markets o r Frontier Markets Indexes will be considered only following 
client consultation.  
Please refer to Appendix II for more information on the Market Classification 
Framework.  
6.5 Treatment of Discontinu ed Standalone Market Indexes  
Standalone Market Indexes may be discontinued if fewer than the required minimum 
number of securities are eligible for inclusion when applying a given methodology to 
a market  (including index continuity rules) .  
MSCI may resume calculation of the Large, Mid, or Small Cap Standalone Indexes  if 
over time a security  become s eligible  and as long as the Standard and IMI 
Standalone Indexes are  not discontinued.  
If the Standard and IMI Standalone Indexes are  discontinued , all of the other size -
segment indexes are also discontinued. MSCI  may resume calculation once the 
market meets the requirements  described in section 6.1 : Creation of Standalone 
Market Indexes for Newly Eligible Markets . 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  APPENDICES  
 
 Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
The tables below provide a list of Stock Exchanges, Market Segments and Eligible 
Security Classes that MSCI uses as the basis of the construction of the MSCI Global 
Investable Market Indexes . 
Eligible Markets (Developed Markets)  
 
Country Name Stock Exchange Market Segment Eligibility of Foreign Listings
AUSTRALIA Australian Securities Exchange -
AUSTRIA Vienna Stock Exchange Prime Market -
Standard Market
BELGIUM Euronext Euronext -
CANADA Toronto Stock Exchange -
CBOE Canada (2)
DENMARK Copenhagen Stock Exchange Large Cap -
Mid Cap
Small Cap
First North First North Growth
First North Premier Growth
FINLAND Helsinki Stock Exchange Large Cap -
Mid Cap
Small Cap
First North First North Growth
First North Premier Growth
FRANCE Euronext Euronext -
Euronext Growth
GERMANY Deutsche Bo rse Xetra EU Regulated market -
Open Market
HONG KONG Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Main Board (4) Yes
Growth Enterprise Market
IRELAND Euronext Euronext -
Euronext Growth
ISRAEL Tel Aviv Stock Exchange Yes
ITALY Borsa Italiana Euronext Milan -
Euronext Growth Milan
Global Equity Market (1)
Market for Investment Vehicle (2)
JAPAN Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) (3) Prime Market -
Standard Market
Growth Market
Tokyo Pro (2)
Nagoya Stock Exchange First Section
Second Section
Centrex
NETHERLANDS Euronext Euronext Yes
NEW ZEALAND New Zealand Stock Exchange -
New Zealand Alternative Exchange
NORWAY Euronext Euronext -
Euronext Expand
Euronext Growth (2)
PORTUGAL Euronext Euronext -
SINGAPORE Singapore Exchange Main Board Yes
Catalist
SPAIN Madrid Stock Exchange Mercado Continuo -
Mercado Alternativo Bursatil (MAB) Growth Companies (GC)
SOCIMI
SWEDEN Stockholm Stock Exchange Large Cap -
Mid Cap
Small Cap
Nordic Growth Market
First North First North Growth
First North Premier Growth
Norwegian Listed Shares (1)
AktieTorget
SWITZERLAND SIX Swiss Exchange Swiss Blue Chip shares -
Mid and Small Caps Swiss shares
Foreign Shares
Sponsored Foreign Shares (1)
BX Swiss
UNITED KINGDOM London Stock Exchange Main Market (5) -
AIM
Admision to Trading Only (ATT) (1)
USA New York Stock Exchange -
NASDAQ Global Select Market
Global Market
Capital Market
NYSE American
NYSE Arca
BATS Exchange (BZX)
(1) Listings on this market segment are eligible only for securities that also have a listing on another eligible stock exchange / market segment.
(2) Listings on this market segment are eligible for the MSCI Indexes as part of the May 2021 Index Review. 
(3) Prime, Standard, and Growth Markets replaced the previous eligible market segments in TSE as part of their restructure effective April 4, 2022.
(4) Hong Kong Chapter 21 Investment Companies are not eligible for inclusion for the MSCI Global Investable Market Indexes as part of August 2022 Index Review.
(5) Listings on this market segment are evaluated on a case-by-case basis in accordance with Section 2.1.1: Identifying Eligible Equity Securities.
 Eligible Markets (Emerging Markets)  
 
 
 
  
Country Name Stock Exchange Market Segment Eligibility of Foreign Listings
BRAZIL (8) Bolsa de Valores de Sao Paulo Traditional Yes
Level 1
Level 2
Novo Mercado
CHILE Santiago Stock Exchange -
CHINA (1) Shenzhen Stock Exchange Main Board Yes
ChiNext
Shenzhen Stock Exchange - Hong Kong Stock Connect
Shanghai Stock Exchange Main Board
STAR Market
Shanghai Stock Exchange - Hong Kong Stock Connect
Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Main Board
Growth Enterprise Market
COLOMBIA Colombian Stock Exchange Local Market -
Global Market (2)
CZECH REPUBLIC Prague Stock Exchange Prime Market -
Standard Market
Free Market (2)
EGYPT Cairo & Alexandria Stock Exchanges -
GREECE Athens Exchange Big Capitalization -
Medium and Small Capitalization
HUNGARY Budapest Stock Exchange Prime Market -
Standard Market
Beta Market (5)
INDIA National Stock Exchange Main Board -
SME Board (7)
Mumbai Stock Exchange
INDONESIA Jakarta Stock Exchange Main Board -
Development Board
New Economy Board (6)
Acceleration Board (7)
KOREA Korea Exchange KOSPI -
KOSDAQ
KUWAIT(4) Kuwait Stock Exchange Premier Market -
Main Market
MALAYSIA Malaysia Stock Exchange Main Market -
ACE Market
MEXICO Mexican Stock Exchange Equity Segment
Global Market Segment (2) -
PERU Lima Stock Exchange Yes
PHILIPPINES Philippine Stock Exchange Main Board -
POLAND Warsaw Stock Exchange Main Market -
Parallel Market
New Connect
QATAR Doha Securities Market -
SAUDI ARABIA (3) Saudi Stock Exchange (Tadawul) Main Market -
Nomu - Parallel Market (5)
SOUTH AFRICA Johannesburg Stock Exchange Main Board -
AltX
ZAR X
TAIWAN Taiwan Stock Exchange -
Taipei Exchange General Stock
THAILAND Stock Exchange of Thailand Stock Exchange of Thailand -
Market for Alternative Investment
TURKEY Istanbul Stock Exchange BIST STARS -
BIST MAIN
BIST SubMarket (5)
Collective And Structured Products
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Abu Dhabi Securities Exchange -
Dubai Financial Market
NASDAQ Dubai
(1) For a more detailed description of the MSCI universe, please refer to Appendix III
(2) Listings on this market segment are eligible only for securities that also have a listing on another eligible stock exchange / market segment
(3) Reclassified from Standalone Markets to Emerging markets at the May 2019 Index Review
(4) Reclassified from Frontier Markets to Emerging markets at the November 2020 Index Review
(5) Listings on this market segment are eligible for the MSCI Indexes as part of the May 2021 Index Review
(6) Listings on this market segment are eligible for the MSCI Indexes as part of the Feb 2023 Index Review
(7) Listings on these market segments are eligible for the MSCI Indexes as part of the August 2024 Index Review
(8) Eligibility of Foreign Listings effective Aug 2024 Index Review
 Eligible  Markets (Frontier Markets)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Country Name Stock Exchange Market Segment Eligibility of Foreign Listings
BAHRAIN Bahrain Stock Exchange Yes
BANGLADESH Dhaka Stock Exchange -
BENIN (1) Bourse Regionale des Valeurs Mobilieres -
BURKINA FASO (1) Bourse Regionale des Valeurs Mobilieres -
CROATIA Zagreb Stock Echange Prime Market -
Official Market
Regular Market
ESTONIA Tallinn Stock Exchange Main List -
Secondary List
GUINEA-BISSAU (1) Bourse Regionale des Valeurs Mobilieres -
ICELAND (2) Iceland Stock Exchange Large Cap Yes
Mid Cap
Small Cap
First North First North
First North Premier
IVORY COAST (1) Bourse Regionale des Valeurs Mobilieres -
JORDAN (4) Amman Stock Exchange Yes
KAZAKHSTAN Yes
KENYA Nairobi Stock Exchange MIMS -
AIMS
LATVIA Riga Stock Exchange
LITHUANIA Vilnius Stock Exchange Main List -
Secondary List
MALI (1) Bourse Regionale des Valeurs Mobilieres -
MAURITIUS Stock Exchange of Mauritius Official Market Yes
MOROCCO Casablanca Stock Exchange Main Market -
Alternative Market
OMAN Muscat Stock Exchange Regular Market -
Parallel Market
PAKISTAN (3) Pakistan Stock Exchange -
ROMANIA Bucharest Stock Exchange Premium Tier Yes
Standard Tier
International Shares Tier
Alternative Market
SENEGAL (1) Bourse Regionale des Valeurs Mobilieres -
SERBIA Belgrade Stock Exchange Listing A -
Listing B
Unregulated Market
SLOVENIA Ljubljana Stock Exchange Prime Market Yes
Standard Market
SRI LANKA Colombo Stock Exchange Main Board -
Diri Savi Board
TOGO (1) Bourse Regionale des Valeurs Mobilieres -
TUNISIA Bourse de Tunis Primary Market -
VIETNAM Hanoi Stock Exchange -
Ho Chi Minh Stock Exchange
(1) Member of the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU)
(2) Reclassified from Standalone to Frontier markets at the May 2021 Index Review
(3) Reclassified from Emerging Markets to Frontier market at the November 2021 Index Review
(4) Eligibility of Foreign Listings effective May 2024 Index Review
 Eligible Markets ( Standalone  Markets)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Country Name Stock Exchange Market Segment Eligibility of Foreign Listings
ARGENTINA (10) Yes
BOSNIA HERZEGOVINA (1) Banja Luka Stock Exchange -
Sarajevo Stock Exchange
BOTSWANA (2) Botswana Stock Exchange BSE Domestic Equity Market Yes
Venture Capital Market
BULGARIA (7) Bulgarian Stock Exchange Official Market -
JAMAICA (2) Jamaica Stock Exchange Main Market -
Junior Market
USD Market
LEBANON Beirut Stock Exchange Official Market Yes
MALTA (9) Malta Stock Exchange -
NIGERIA (11) Nigeria Stock Exchange Main Market
Premium Market
Growth Market (12)
PALESTINE (3) Palestine Exchange -
PANAMA (8) Yes
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (4) Trinidad and Tobago Stock Exchange First Tier -
Second Tier
Small and Medium Enterprises (12)
UKRAINE (6) PFTS Stock Exchange Yes
Ukrainian Exchange
ZIMBABWE (5) Zimbabwe Stock Exchange (Harare) -
(1) Added as standalone market at the May 2010 Index Review
(2) Added as standalone markets at the November 2008 Index Review
(3) Added as standalone market at the May 2013 Index Review
(4) Reclassified from Frontier Markets to standalone market at the May 2011 Index Review
(5) Added as standalone markets at the November 2010 Index Review
(6) Reclassified from Frontier Markets to standalone market at the August 2015 Index Review
(7) Reclassified from Frontier Markets to standalone market at the August 2016 Index Review
(8) Added as standalone market at the May 2017 Index Review, currently only US listed securities eligible
(9) Added as standalone market at the May 2019 Index Review
(10) Reclassified from Emerging Markets to standalone market at the November 2021 Index Review
(11) Reclassified from Frontier Markets to standalone market at the February 2024 Index Review
(12) Listings on this market segment are eligible for the MSCI Indexes as part of the August 2024 Index Review
 Eligible Classes of Securities for Stock Exchanges in 
Developed Markets  
 
 
Country of Listing* Classes of Securities
AUSTRALIA Ordinary shares
Preferred shares (1)
Stapled securities
CDIs
Units
AUSTRIA Ordinary shares
Preferred shares (1)
Participation certificates
BELGIUM Ordinary shares
Preferred shares (1)
CANADA Ordinary shares
Units of Income Trusts
Stapled securities
DENMARK Ordinary shares
FINLAND Ordinary shares
FRANCE Ordinary shares
Preferred shares (1)
Certificats d'Investissement
Certificats Coope ratif d'Investissement
Stapled securities
GERMANY Ordinary shares
Preferred shares (1)
HONG KONG Ordinary shares
Preferred shares (1)
Business trusts
Stapled securities
IRELAND Ordinary shares
Units
ISRAEL Common shares
Preferred shares (1)
ITALY Ordinary shares
Preferred shares (1)
Savings shares
JAPAN Ordinary shares
Preferred shares (1)
NETHERLANDS Ordinary shares
Preferred shares (1)
Certificates
NEW ZEALAND Ordinary shares
Preferred shares (1)
Units
Stapled securities
NORWAY Ordinary shares
Primary Capital Certificates
PORTUGAL Ordinary shares
SINGAPORE Ordinary shares
Preferred shares (1)
Business trusts
Stapled securities
SPAIN Ordinary shares
Preferred shares (1)
SWEDEN Ordinary shares
Swedish Depositary Receipts
SWITZERLAND Registered shares
Bearer shares
Participation certificates
Dividend-right certificates
UNITED KINGDOM Ordinary shares
Preferred shares (1)
Units
CDIs
Depositary Receipts
USA Common shares
Preferred shares (1)
Tracking Stock
Depositary Receipts
(1) Preferred shares that exhibit characteristics of equity securities are generally eligible*The table shows the eligible classes of securities by country of listing. Please note that different 
countries of listing and their associated share classes may be eligible for country equity universes 
which may include foreign listings.
 Eligible Classes of Securities  for Stock Exchanges in  Emerging 
Markets  
 
 
 
 
 
Country of Listing* Classes of Securities
BRAZIL Ordinary shares
Preferred shares (2)
Units
CHILE Common shares
Preferred shares (2)
CHINA (1) "A" shares
"B" shares
Stapled securities
China Depository Receipts (CDRs) (5)
COLOMBIA Ordinary shares
Preferred shares (2)
CZECH REPUBLIC Common shares
EGYPT Ordinary shares
Preferred shares (2)
GREECE Ordinary shares
Preferred shares (2)
HUNGARY Common shares
Preferred shares (2)
INDIA Ordinary shares
INDONESIA Ordinary shares
KOREA Common shares
Preferred shares (2)
KUWAIT (4) Ordinary shares
MALAYSIA Common shares
Preferred shares (2)
Stapled securities
MEXICO Ordinary shares
Certificates of Participation
Units
PERU Common shares
Preferred shares (2)
Investment shares
PHILIPPINES Common shares
Philippine Depositary Receipts
POLAND Common shares
QATAR Ordinary shares
SAUDI ARABIA (3) Common shares
SOUTH AFRICA Common shares
Preferred shares (2)
Units
TAIWAN Ordinary shares
Preferred shares (2)
THAILAND Common shares
Preferred shares (2)
TURKEY Common shares
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Ordinary shares
(1) For a more detailed description of the MSCI universe, please refer to Appendix III
(2) Preferred shares that exhibit characteristics of equity securities are generally eligible
(3) Reclassified from Standalone Markets to Emerging markets at the May 2019 Index Review
(4) Reclassified from Frontier Markets to Emerging markets at the November 2020 Index Review
(5) Listings of this class of security are eligible for the MSCI Indexes as part of the May 2021 Index Review*The table shows the eligible classes of securities by country of listing. Please note that different countries of 
listing and their associated share classes may be eligible for country equity universes which may include 
foreign listings.
 Eligible Classes of Securities for Stock Exchanges in Frontier 
Markets  
Country of Listing* Classes of Securities
BAHRAIN Ordinary shares
BANGLADESH Ordinary shares
BENIN (2) Ordinary shares
BURKINA FASO (2) Common shares
CROATIA Common shares
Preferred shares (1)
ESTONIA Common shares
GUINEA-BISSAU (2) Common shares
ICELAND (3) Common shares
IVORY COAST (2) Common shares
JORDAN Common shares
KAZAKHSTAN None
KENYA Common shares
Preferred shares (1)
LATVIA Common shares
LITHUANIA Common shares
MALI (2) Common shares
MAURITIUS Common shares
Preferred shares (1)
MOROCCO Ordinary shares
NIGER (2) Common shares
OMAN Ordinary shares
PAKISTAN (4) Ordinary shares
Preferred shares (1)
ROMANIA Common shares
SENEGAL (2) Common shares
SERBIA Common shares
Preferred shares (1)
SLOVENIA Common shares
Preferred shares (1)
SRI LANKA Ordinary shares
TOGO (2) Common shares
TUNISIA Common shares
VIETNAM Common shares
(1) Preferred shares that exhibit characteristics of equity securities are generally eligible
(2) Member of the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU)
(3) Reclassified from Standalone to Frontier markets at the May 2021 Index Review
(4) Reclassified from Emerging Market to Frontier markets at the November 2021 Index Review*The table shows the eligible classes of securities by country of listing. Please note that different countries 
of listing and their associated share classes may be eligible for country equity universes which may 
include foreign listings.
 Eligible Classes of Securities for Stock Exchanges in 
Standalone Markets  
Country of Listing* Classes of Securities
ARGENTINA (11) None
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA (2) Ordinary shares
BOTSWANA (3) Common shares
BULGARIA (8) Common shares
JAMAICA (3) Common shares
Preferred shares (1)
LEBANON Common shares
Preferred shares (1)
MALTA (10) Common shares
NIGERIA (11) Common shares
PALESTINE (4) Common shares
PANAMA (9) None
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (5) Common shares
UKRAINE (7) Common shares
Preferred shares (1)
ZIMBABWE (6) Common shares
(1) Preferred shares that exhibit characteristics of equity securities are generally eligible
(2) Added as standalone market at the May 2010 Index Review
(3) Added as standalone markets at the November 2008 Index Review
(4) Added as standalone market at the May 2013 Index Review
(5) Reclassified from Frontier Markets to standalone market at the May 2011 Index Review
(6) Added as standalone markets at the November 2010 Index Review
(7) Reclassified from Frontier Markets to standalone market at the August 2015 Index Review
(8) Reclassified from Frontier Markets to standalone market at the August 2016 Index Review
(9) Added as standalone market at the May 2017 Index Review
(10) Added as standalone market at the May 2019 Index Review
(11) Added as standalone market at the November 2021 Index Review
(11) Added as standalone market at the February 2024 Index Review*The table shows the eligible classes of securities by country of listing. Please note that different countries of listing 
and their associated share classes may be eligible for country equity universes which may include foreign listings.
 REITs  
Companies that have adopted the following REITs or REIT equivalent structures in 
the countries mentioned below qualify to be classified in one of the REIT Sub -
Industries of the GICS .  
* Australia: LPT (Australian Listed Property Trust), A -REIT  
* Belgium: SICAFI (Societe d'Investissement a Capital Fixe Immobiliere)  
* Bulgaria, Canada, Germany, Ireland, Israel, Finland, Hong Kong, China, Korea, 
Taiwan, the UK and the U.S.: REIT (Real Estate Investment Trust)  
* Colombia: REIT (Real Estate Investment Trust)39 
* France: SIIC (Societes d'Investissements Immobiliers Cotees)  
* Greece: REIC (Real Estate Investment Company)  
* India: REIT (Real Estate Investment Trust)  
* Italy: SIIQ (Societa di investimento immobiliare quotata)  
* Japan: J -REIT (Japanese Real Estate Investment Trust)  
* Malaysia: REIT (Real Estate Investment Trust/Property Trust Funds)  
* Saudi Arabia: REIT (Real Estate Investment Traded Fund)  
* Spain: SOCIMI (Sociedades Anonimas Cotizadas de Inversion en el Mercado 
Inmobiliario)  
* Mexico: FIBRAS (Fideicomiso de Infraestructura y Bienes Rai ces)  
* Netherlands: FBI (Fiscal investment institution/Fiscale Beleggingsinstelling)  
* New Zealand: Listed Property Vehicles (LPVs)  
* Singapore: S -REIT (Singapore Real Estate Investment Trust)  
* South Africa: REIT  
* Turkey: Gayrimenkul Yatirim Ortakligi  
* United Arab Emirates: REIT  
* Pakistan: REIT  
 
39 Effective at February 2024 Index Review  
 * Philippines: REIT  
MSCI closely monitors the potential emergence of REIT equivalent structures in other 
countries and updates the above list when appropriate . 
Canadian Income Trusts  
Income trusts in Canada formed under the laws of provinces which have passed 
limited liability legislation and are not designed to invest in a diversified portfolio of 
income trusts, securities, and/or funds; and which pay  or intend to pay  non-
refundable SIFT (Specified Investment flow -through) taxes, will be included in the 
MSCI Equity Universe and will be subject to the same index eligibility rules applicable 
to other equity (and equity -like) securities.  
Additionally, corporations in Canada that qualify as 'Mutual Fund Corporations' under 
the Income Tax Act (Canada) and are not designed to invest in a diversified portfolio 
of income trusts, securities, and/or funds; and which pay or intend to pay non-
refundable corporate taxes, will be included in the MSCI Equity Universe and will be 
subject to the same index eligibility rules applicable to other equity (and equity -like) 
securities.  
Ineligible Alert Boards  
Securities of companies  included in the alert boards listed in the table below are not 
eligible for inclusion in the MSCI Equity Universe . 
 
Country Name  Stock Exchange  Alert Board  
Developed  Markets    
Denmark  Copenhagen Stock Exchange  Observation Status  (1) 
Finland  Helsinki Stock Exchange  Observation Status  (1) 
Sweden  Stockholm Stock Exchange  Observation Status  (1) 
Singapore  Singapore Exchange  Watch List  
Japan  Tokyo Stock Exchange  Securities Under Supervision  &  
Securities to Be Delisted  (2) 
   
Emerging Markets      
China  Shanghai St ock Exchange  
Shenzhen Stock Exchange  Special Treatment (ST / *ST)  
Greece  Athens Exchange  Under Surveillance Special Segment (4)  
 Country Name  Stock Exchange  Alert Board  
India  Mumbai Stock Exchange  
 
 
National Stock Exchange  Z Group  
S+ Framework  
Graded Surveillance  Measure (4)  
Graded Surveillance Measure (4)  
Indonesia  Jakarta Stock Exchange  Watch List Board (3)  
Korea  Korea Exchange  Administrative Issues  
Malaysia  Bursa Malaysia  PN17 Companies  
Taiwan  Taiwan Stock Exchange  
Taipei Stock Exchange  Altered Trading Method (ATM)  
Thailand  Stock Exchange of Thailand  Companies Facing Delisting  
Turkey  Istanbul Stock Exchange  Watch List Companies  
      
Frontier Markets      
Estonia  Tallinn Stock Exchange  Observation Status  (1) 
Iceland  Iceland  Stock Exchange  Observation Status  (1) 
Latvia  Riga Stock Exchange  Observation Status  (1) 
Lithuania  Vilnius Stock Exchange  Observation Status  (1) 
Pakistan  Pakistan Stock Exchange  Defaulter's Segment ( 5) 
Sri Lanka  Colombo Stock Exchange  Watch List Board  
Second Board  
Vietnam  Ho Chi Minh Stock Exchange  Controlled Securities  
   
Stand alone Markets    
Bulgaria  Bulgarian Stock Exchange   Alternative Market Segment  
(1) Not applicable to securities under Observation Status due to public takeover 
offers  
(2) Not applicable to securities under Securities Under Supervision & Securities 
to Be Delisted  due to public takeover offers  
(3) Not applicable to existing constituents  under Watch List Board due to Criteria 
10 effective February 2024 Index Review  
(4) Effective at February 2024 Index Review      
(5) Effective at August 2024 Index Review                                
Non-Index Constituents  
Non-index constituents included in the alert boards listed in the table above  are not 
eligible for inclusion in the MSCI Equity Universe . 
 In order to minimize potential reverse turnover, securities deleted due to inclusion on 
such boards  (see deletion of existing index constituents below)  may only  be added 
back to the MSCI GIMI after  12 months from their deletion  from the index provided 
that they have been removed from the ineligible alert board before the relevant equity 
universe cutoff date . For example, securities that are deleted due to becoming part of 
an ineligible alert board as part of the May 2014 Index Review will only be eligible f or 
inclusion in the MSCI GIMI as part of the May 2015 Index Review if they have been 
removed from the ineligible alert board by the end of February 2015.  
Deletion of Existing Index Constituents  
Constituents of the MSCI GIMI that enter the alert boards listed in the table above will 
be deleted on the last business day of each month  at market price with a notice 
period of at least two full business days. During an Index Review, the deletion of a 
security that enters an ineligible alert board  will be made to coincide with the 
effective date of the Index Review. In addition, MSCI may reverse the addition of any 
company that may enter the alert boards in order to avoid potential reverse turnover.  
In the event the securities do not trade on the implementation date of the deletion, 
MSCI would amend the deletion price from market price to lowest system price.  
Other Cases  
During Index Reviews, starting from the Index Review Price Cutoff Dat e (as defined in 
section 3.1.9) and until two business days before the Index Review effective date, 
MSCI will not implement any additions to IMI and size-segment migrations within IMI 
for securities that enter the following boards:  
* Indonesia Watchlist Board due to Criteria 10  
* Taiwan Disposition Board  
Such securities will be re -evaluated for inclusion or size -segment migration in the 
subsequent Index Review.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Appendix II: Market Classification Framework  
The classification of markets is a key input in the process of index construction as it 
drives the composition of the investment opportunity sets to be represented. The 
approach used by MSCI aims to reflect the views and practices of the international 
investment community by striking a balance between a  country's economic 
development and the accessibility of its market while preserving index stability.  
The MSCI Market Classification Framework consists of following three criteria: 
economic development, size and liquidity as well as market accessibility.  
In order to be classified in a given investment universe, a country must meet the 
requirements of all three criteria as described in the table below.  
 
 
 
The economic development criterion is only used in determining the classification of 
Developed Markets while that distinction is not relevant between Emerging and 
Frontier Markets given the very wide variety of development levels within each of 
these two universes.   
The size and liquidity requirements are based on the minimum investability 
requirements for the MSCI Global Standard Indexes . 
Criteria 
 Frontier  
 Emerging  
 Developed  
A 
Economic Development  
A.1 
Sustainability of economic development  
 No requirement  
 No requirement  
Country GNI per  
capita 25% above the  
World Bank high  
income threshold* for  
3 consecutive years  
B 
Size and Liquidity Requirements  
B.1 
Number of companies meeting the following Standard Index criteria  
 1 
 3 
 5 
   Company size (full market cap) **  
 USD 138 mm 
 USD 2,760 mm 
 USD 5,519 mm 
  
   Security size (float market cap) **  
 USD 69 mm 
 USD 1,380 mm 
 USD 2,760 mm 
   Security liquidity  
 2.5% ATVR  
 15% ATVR  
 20% ATVR  
C 
Market Accessibility Criteria  
C.1 
Openness to foreign ownership  
 At least some  
 Significant  
 Very high  
C.2 
Ease of capital inflows / outflows  
 At least partial  
 Significant  
 Very high  
C.3 
Efficiency of operational framework  
 Modest 
 Good and tested  
 Very high  
C.4 
Availability of Investment Instrument  
 High 
 High 
 Unrestricted  
* High income threshold: 2023 GNI per capita of USD 14,005  (World Bank, Atlas method)  
** Minimum in use for the August  2024 Index Review, updated on a quarterly  basis  
Stability of the institutional framework  
 C.5 
 Modest 
 Modest 
 Very high  
 Market accessibility aims to reflect international investors' experience of investing in 
a given market and as a result, this criterion includes several sub -criteria. These 
criteria are generally based on qualitative measures that are reviewed for all markets 
at least once a year during the MSCI Global Market Accessibility Review.  
MSCI regularly reviews the market classification of all countries included in the MSCI 
Indexes  to ensure that they remain reflective of the evolution of the different 
markets. In particular, changes in the assessments under the classification 
framework serve as the basis for determining the markets that will be reviewed for 
potential market reclass ification as part of the Annual Market Classification Review.  
MSCI will only consider markets for upgrade if a change in classification status can 
be viewed as irreversible. Every June, MSCI will communicate its conclusions from 
the discussions with the investment community on the list of countries under review 
and a nnounce the new list of countries, if any, under review for potential market 
reclassification in the upcoming cycle. While adhering to the regular timeline for such 
communication helps provide greater predictability and is less disruptive to a 
market's nor mal functioning, MSCI may from time to time exercise prudent discretion 
and consider off -cycle communications should significant market events take place 
outside the regular review cycle.  
 
August 2024  
MSCI.COM | Page 100 of 207 
 (c) 2024  MSCI Inc. All rights reserved. Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document.  
 Index Methodology  
Existence of qualifying conditions for international investors. Existence of a level playing field for all international inve stors. 
Definition 
Openness to foreign ownership  
Investor qualification requirement  
Foreign ownership limit (FOL) level  
 Proportion of the market being accessible to non -domestic investors.  
Foreign room level  
 Proportion of shares still available for non -domestic investors.  Existence of a foreign board where non -domestic investors could trade with  
each other.  
Equal rights to foreign investors  
 Equal economic and voting rights as well as availability of information in English.  Equal rights for minority shareholders.  
Ease of capital inflows / outflows  
Capital flow restriction level  
 Existence of restriction on inflows and outflows of foreign capital to/from the local stock market (excluding foreign currenc y exchange  
restrictions).  
Foreign exchange market liberalization level  
 Existence of a developed onshore and offshore foreign exchange market.  
Efficiency of the operational framework  
Market entry  
Investor registration & account set up  
 Existence/level of complexity of registration requirements for international investors such as Tax IDs as well as ease/comple xity for setting up  
local accounts (e.g., documents to be provided, approvals required).  The time to complete the process includes the preparati on of the  
documents.  
Market organization  
Market regulations  
 Level of advancement of he legal and regulatory framework governing the financial market, the stock exchange and the various other  
entities involved in the financial markets, an important weight is assigned to:  ease of access (including in English), lack of ambiguity and  
prompt enforcement of laws and regulations, as well as consistency over time.  
Information flow  
 Timely disclosure of complete stock market information items (e.g., stock exchange alerts, corporate news, float information,  dividend  
information) in English and under reasonable commercial terms, as well as the robustness and enforcement of accounting standa rds. 
Market infrastructure  
Clearing and Settlement  
 Well functioning clearing and settlement system based on the broad framework published by the Bank for International Settleme nts including  
delivery versus payment (DVP), the absence of pre -funding requirements/practices and the possibility to use overdrafts. Availability of real 
omnibus structures.  
Custody 
 Level of competition amongst local custodian banks as well as  the presence of global custodian banks.  Existence of an effic ient  
mechanism that prevents brokers to have unlimited access to the investor's accounts and guarantees the safekeeping of its ass ets. 
Registry / Depository  
 A well functioning central registry or independent registrars and a central depository.  
Trading 
 Level of competition amongst brokers ensuring high quality services (e.g., cost efficient trading, ability to execute grouped  trades at the  
same price for the various accounts of a fund manager).  
Transferability  
 Possibility of off -exchange transactions and "in -kind" transfers.  
Stock lending  
 Existence of a regulatory framework as well as an efficient mechanism allowing extensive use of stock lending.  
Short selling  
 Existence of a regulatory and practical framework allowing short selling.  
Stability of institutional framework  
Basic institutional principles such as the rule of law and its enforcement as well as the stability of the "free -market" economic system.  Track  
record of government intervention with regards to foreign investors.  
 
Availability of Investment Instruments  
 Existence of restrictions on access to derived stock exchange information, data and products that prevents the creation of in vestment instruments.   
  Market Accessibility Criteria  
 Markets Under Index Continuity  
In order to achieve index continuity, as well as provide some basic level of 
diversification within a market index, notwithstanding the effect of other index 
construction rules contained herein, a minimum number of five constituents will be 
maintained for a DM Standard Index, three constituents for an EM Standard Index, 
and one constituent for an FM Standard Index.  
 
The following table below shows those markets where after the application of the 
index maintenance methodology, the Standard Index contains less than the 
minimum number of constituents, and hence the index continuity rules have been 
applied to achieve  the minimum number of constituents as part of the August  2024  
Index Review .  
 
Developed Markets  Emerging Markets  Frontier Markets  
   
 Czech Republic   
 Egypt   
 Peru   
   
   
   
   
 
 
  
 Appendix III: Country Classification of Securities  
This appendix outlines the guidelines MSCI uses to determine the country 
classification of companies and their equity securities.  
General F ramework  
Each company and its securities followed in the MSCI Equity  Universe are classified 
in one and only one country.  
The country classification of a company  is generally determined by the company's 
country of incorporation and the primary listing of its securit ies. MSCI will classify a 
company in the country of incorporation if its securities have a primary listing in this 
country. This approach determines the country classification of the vast majority of 
companies . 
Other Cases  
In some  cases , a company 's securities may be  incorporated in one country while its 
securities have a primary listing in a different country . For example , companies may 
choose to incorporate in a different country than the country of primary listing to 
benefit from tax, legal, and/or regulatory advantages. These companies often 
incorporate in countries with limited, if any, public domestic equity markets, suc h as 
the Bahamas, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Channel Islands, 
Luxembourg, Marsh all Islands, Netherlands Antilles, and Panama.  
In such  cases  where a company's securities have a primary listing outside of the 
country of incorporation , an additional analysis is performed to determine the 
company's country classification. In addition to the company's country of 
incorporation and the location of the primary listing, MSCI considers  a set of criteria , 
including : 
* The security's secondary listings if any;  
* The geographic distribution of the company's shareholder base;  
* The geographic distribution of the company's management ; 
* The location of its headquarters;  
* The geographic distribution of its operations (in terms of assets and revenues);  
* The company's history, and  
* The country in which investors consider the company to be most appropriately 
classified.  
 In the cases where the analysis cannot establish a significant link of a company with 
a single country, MSCI will generally classify the company in the country of the 
primary listing of its securities.  
Country Specific C ases  
United States (US):  Companies listed in the US  that file a Form 10-K/10-Q  may be 
classified in the US provided that four of the following five variables do not point to 
another single country: operations, revenues, headquarters, management and 
shareholder base.  Companies incorporated in Puerto Rico and listed in the US are 
generally included in the US Equity Universe.  
Companies listed in the US that do not file a Form 10-K/10-Q are assessed as per the  
rules highlighted in the  above  "Other Cases" sub-section . 
 
Europe:  Companies incorporated in a European DM country (including Luxembourg) 
which have their securities' most liquid  listing in a different European DM country are 
generally classified in the country of the most liquid  listing.  
China:  The MSCI China universe includes companies incorporated in  Mainland China  
and listed in the form of A shares40, CDRs or B shares on the Shanghai Stock 
Exchange (in US$) or Shenzhen Stock Exchange (in HK$), or H shares on the Hong 
Kong Stock Exchange ( in HK$). The MSCI China universe may include companies not 
incorporated in Mainland China , but are listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange or 
Shenzhen Stock Exchange . Securities with "ST" or "*ST" status are excluded from the 
Equity Universe  (see Appendix I for more details) . 
In addition, the MSCI China universe includes companies not incorporated in 
Mainland China  but listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange provided that they meet 
the following definitions : 
Red-Chip: company whose largest shareholder is an organization or enterprise that is 
owned by the state, provinces, or municipalities of Mainland China . 
P-Chip: the company satisfies following conditions:  
* For a company  with  headquarters  in Mainland China :  It derives  more than  50% of 
its revenue from  Mainland China  (40% for existing  securities in China universe ) or 
it allocates  more than  50% of its  non-current  assets in Mainland China  (40% for 
existing  securities in China universe ) 
* For a company  with  headquarters  in Hong Kong, Macau  or elsewhere : It derives  
more than  80% of its  revenue from  Mainland China  (70% for existing  securities in 
 
40 Currently Stock Connect eligible Large Cap  and Mid Cap China  A shares /CDRs  are eligible for inclu sion  in the 
MSCI China Index . 
 China universe ) and  it allocates  more than  60% of its  non-current  assets in 
Mainland China  (50% for existing  securities in China universe ) 
Companies which exhibit strong linkage to China but do not satisfy the H Shares, Red 
Chip or P Chip conditions above are included in MSCI Hong Kong universe , if they 
satisfy two out of three of the following conditions:  
* The company's headquarter is located in either Mainland China  or Hong Kong or 
Macau  
* The company derives more than 50% of its revenues from Mainland China , Hong 
Kong and Macau combined  
* The company has more than 50% of its non-current assets in Mainland China , 
Hong Kong and Macau combined  
The MSCI China universe excludes companies which satisfy the above conditions 
but derive more than 80% of their revenues from the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region  (HKSAR) . These companies will be included in the MSCI Hong 
Kong universe.  However  existing  securities may remain in the MSCI Hong Kong 
universe if they  meet the threshold of 70% . Also, the companies which derive a 
majority of revenues and assets from Macau are included in the MSCI Hong Kong 
universe.  
Companies that do not satisfy the H Shares, Red Chip, P Chip or HKSAR conditions, 
but are incorporated in Hong Kong, are included in MSCI Hong Kong universe.  
Securities classified in China may be represented by a foreign listing (i.e. a listing 
outside China or Hong Kong) in the MSCI China Indexes. However, such securities 
listed in the US and resulting from reverse mergers41 are not eligible for index 
inclusion.  
Australia:  The MSCI Australia universe includes companies incorporated in Papua 
New Guinea that are listed on the Australian Securities Exchange. 42 
Greece : The MSCI Greece universe includes companies incorporated in Cyprus that 
are listed on the Athens Exchange.43 
Countries subject to economic sanctions:  MSCI does not cover certain countries for 
which significant economic sanctions are applied. Examples of such countries as of 
February 2018 are Cuba, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Libya, North Korea, Iran, 
Iraq, Somalia, Sudan and Syria.  
 
 
41 Companies resulting from reverse merger but are later listed through a formal IPO will be considered eligible.  
42 Effective since the November 2015 Index Review . 
43 Effective since the May 2009 Index Review . 
 Companies that are classified to and/or incorporated in such countries are not 
eligible for inclusion in the MSCI Global Investable Market Indexes. MSCI regularly 
assesses eligibility of new markets and communicates their potential inclusion in the 
MSCI GI MI in advance of implementation.  
Change in Country Classification  
In general, country classification review for all securities in the MSCI Equity Universe 
is conducted annually and changes, if any, are implemented at November Index 
Review s. 
When MSCI changes a company's country classification, the company's equity 
securities are not automatically included in the index of the new country 
classification even if the company was a constituent of its original country's index. 
The company and it s securities would have to be eligible in all respects in the index 
of the new country.  
In case an index constituent changes its incorporation as part of a corporate event, 
the country classification in such cases is reviewed in accordance with the section 
5.5 of the MSCI Corporate Events methodology book. In that case, the company may 
be reclassified simultaneously with the change in country of incorporation or at an 
Index Review following the corporate event.  If a decision is made to re -classify the 
company after the change in country of incorporation, an announcement will be sent 
out as per  the MSCI announcement policy. No announcement will be sent if the 
company will not be re -classified.  
For cases with change in incorporation outside of a corporate event, the country 
classification is generally reviewed and implemented at the Index Review  following 
the incorporation change, based on the country classification framework as 
mentioned above.  
For cases listed in the US with change in the filing type, the country classification is 
generally reviewed and implemented at the Index Review following the change in 
filing type, based on the country classification framework as mentioned above.  
  
 Appendix IV: Foreign Listing Materiality Requirement  
Securities may be represented in the MSCI Global Investable Market Indexes by a 
listing in the country where they are classified (i.e. "local listing"). In addition, 
securities may also be represented by a listing in a different country (i.e. "foreign 
listing") in certain MSCI Country Investable Market Indexes (IMI) within the MSCI 
Global Investable  Market Indexes.  
Foreign listings may become eligible to represent securities only from the countries 
that meet the Foreign Listing Materiality Requirement. This requirement is applied at 
the time of Index Reviews to the countries that do not yet include securities 
represented by foreign listings.  
In order to assess whether a country meets the Foreign Listing Materiality 
Requirement, the following steps are undertaken:  
* Apply Index Review  index maintenance rules described in Sub -section 3.1 to 
determine which securities represented by a foreign listing would be included in 
the MSCI Country IMI if foreign listings were eligible from that country.  
* Calculate the aggregate free float -adjusted market capitalization of all such 
securities  
* This aggregate market capitalization of securities represented by foreign listings 
should represent at least:  
 5% of the free float -adjusted market capitalization of the relevant MSCI Country IMI44 , and  
 0.05% of the  free float -adjusted market capitalization of the MSCI ACWI IMI.  
The second condition is not applied to Frontier Markets countries.  
Once a country meets the Foreign Listing Materiality Requirement at a given Index 
Review , foreign listings will become eligible from this country a fter two Index 
Reviews . For example, foreign listings will become eligible for a country at the 
February 2025 Index Review once th at country meets the Foreign Listing Materiality 
Requirement at the August  2024  Index Review.  Then, foreign listings will remain 
eligible even if the aggregate market capitalization of securities represented by 
foreign listings decreas es over time below the materiality thresholds.  
The following table provides the list of countries for which securities may be 
represented by foreign listings:  
 
 
 
 
44 Securities represented by foreign listings are included in the free float -adjusted market capitalization of the 
MSCI Country IMI  for the purpose of this calculation.  
  
Countries for which foreign listings are eligible  
Argentina  Israel  Peru  
Bahrain  Jordan  Romania  
Botswana  Kazakhstan  Singapore  
Brazil  Lebanon  Slovenia  
China  Mauritius  Sweden  
Hong Kong  Netherlands  Ukraine  
Iceland  Panama (*)   
(*) T he MSCI Panama Index was launched as a Standalone Market Index as part of the May 2017 
Index Review and currently includes only foreign listings . 
 
At the February 2024  Index Review , Brazil met the  Foreign Listing Materiality 
Requirement. Hence, foreign listings will become eligible for the MSCI Brazil  Indexes 
as part of the August  2024 Index Review . 
At the May  2024 Index Review, Sweden met the Foreign Listing Materiality 
Requirement. Hence, foreign listings will become eligible for the MSCI Sweden 
Indexes as part of the November 2024 Index Review.  
  
 Appendix V: Treatment of Investment Sanctions 
Related to U.S. Executive Order 13959  
The U.S. Executive Order 13959 dated November 12, 2020 which Prohibits 
Transactions by U.S. Persons in Certain Chinese Companies  (the Order) , along with 
clarification from the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC),  results in the deletion 
from / non -inclusion in the MSCI GIMI  of relevant impacted securities . 
On January 5, 8 and 26, 2021 , MSCI deleted securities impacted by the Order from 
the MSCI GIMI.  Following the amendment of the Order  on June 3, 2021, OFAC has 
published the Non -SDN Chinese Military -Industrial Complex Companies List (NS -
CMIC List) and related security tickers. MSCI deleted  the securities included in 
OFAC's NS -CMIC List from the MSCI GIMI  as of the close of July 26, 2021.  
* MSCI continues to monitor for updates to the NS-CMIC List of securities and 
related security tickers impacted by the Order. Furthermore, s ecurities which are 
not included in the NS -CMIC List but belong to the same issuer as a security 
already included in the NS-CMIC List will also be considered as impacted by the 
Order.  
* Securities impacted by the Order are considered to be ineligible for inclusion in 
the MSCI GIMI. At the time of the Index Reviews, MSCI will apply the MSCI GIMI 
Methodology on the MSCI Equity Universe, which includes securities impacted by 
the Order to derive the constituents  of the MSCI J -Series Indexes. For the 
investability requirements, size -segmentation assignment, and conformity with 
final investability requirements, companies and securities will be assessed  based 
on their current status in the MSCI J-Series  Indexes , subject to the relevant buffer 
rules. Securities that are impacted by the Order that are assigned to a Size -
Segment will have an adjustment factor of 0 applied and hence will not be 
included in the relevant MSCI GIMI size -segment indexes.  
* Existing index constituents impacted by the Order will be deleted from the MSCI 
GIMI.  At the time of their deletion from the MSCI GIMI, the securities will be  
retained in their existing Size -Segment and will continue to be included in the 
Market Investable Equity Universe.  
 
MSCI J -Series Indexes : 
The MSCI J -Series Indexes follow the MSCI GIMI  Methodology but do not apply th e 
treatment of  investment sanctions related to the Order. Therefore, the MSCI J -Series 
Indexes  will retain the securities deleted from the MSCI GIMI due to the investment 
sanctions related to the Order.  
 MSCI J -Series Indexes are available upon request for clients subscribing to  standard 
and custom index es impacted by the Order.  
MSCI China A Onshore Indexes : 
The MSCI China A Onshore Indexes will not take into account investment  sanctions  
related to  the Order. However, parallel versions of the MSCI China A Onshore Indexes 
("MSCI K -Series Indexes") that exclude relevant impacted securities are available  
upon request , as further described in Appendix XII: MSCI Domestic Indexes.  
  
 Appendix V I: Free Float Definition and Estimation 
Guidelines  
MSCI calculates the free float -adjusted market capitalization of each security in the 
equity index universe. The process of free float -adjusting market capitalization 
involves:  
* Defining and estimating the free float available to foreign investors for each 
security, using MSCI's definition of free float  
* Assigning a free float -adjustment factor to each security (Foreign Inclusion 
Factor or FIF).  
* Calculating the free float -adjusted market capitalization of each security.  
The free float -adjusted market capitalization is used to calculate the weights of the 
securities in the indexes . 
 
Defining and Estimating Free Float  
MSCI's estimation of free float is based solely on publicly available shareholder 
information. For each security, all available shareholdings are considered where 
public data is available, regardless of the size of the shareholding.  
MSCI defines the free float of a security as the proportion of shares outstanding that 
is deemed to be available for purchase in the public equity markets by international 
investors. Therefore, MSCI primarily classifies shareholdings as free float or non -free 
float based on a categorization of investor types into non -strategic and strategic 
respectively.  
Details of the shareholding classification and the ongoing maintenance of free -float 
related changes are detailed in the MSCI Free Float Data Methodology  at 
www.msci.com/index -methodology . 
 
Calculation of Free Float  
Securities Not Subject to Foreign Ownership Limits (FOLs)  
For securities not subject to FOLs, the free float of a security is estimated as its total 
number of shares outstanding less shareholdings classified as non -free float.  
 
 Non-Free Float Shareholdings (%) =  Number of Shares Classified as Non -Free 
Float divided by the Total Number of 
Shares  
 
Free Float (%)    = 100% minus Non -Free Float Shareholdings (%)  
 
Securities Subject to FOLs  
For securities subject to FOLs, the estimated free float available to foreign investors 
is equal to the lesser of:  
* Estimate of free float, as defined above.  
* FOL adjusted for non -free float stakes held by foreign investors *. 
* * It is applicable only to companies classified in countries for which foreign room 
is not  monitored  
 
Free Float for Foreign Investors (%)  = Lower of:   
* 100% minus Non -Free Float Shareholdings, including Domestic and Foreign 
Shareholdings  
* FOL minus Foreign Non -Free Float Shareholdings  
Assigning a Free Float -Adjustment Factor  
MSCI free float -adjusts the market capitalization of each security using an 
adjustment factor referred to as the Foreign Inclusion Factor (FIF).  
Securities with Free Float Greater Than 15% and Not Subject to FOLs  
For securities with free float greater than 15%, the FIF is equal to the estimated free 
float, rounded up to the closest 5%.  
Securities with Free Float Less than 15% and Not Subject to FOLs  
For securities with free float less than 15%, the FIF is equal to the estimated free 
float, rounded to the closest 1%.  
Securities Subject to FOLs  
For securities subject to FOLs, the FIF is equal to the lesser of:  
* Estimated free float available to foreign investors,  
 Rounded up to the closest 5%, if the free float is greater than 15%.  
 Rounded to the closest 1%, if the free float is less than 15%.  
 * FOL rounded to the closest 1%.  
Securities Affected by Other Foreign Investment Restrictions  
In the case where other foreign investment restrictions exist, which materially limit 
the ability of international investors to freely invest in a particular equity market, 
sector or security, a Limited Investability Factor (LIF) may be applied to insure t hat 
the investability objectives of the MSCI Indexes  can be achieved.   
There is typically no simple way to account for these types of investability limitations 
in a benchmark, as they tend to be subtle and complex, and may affect different 
market participants in different ways.  
For example, such restrictions may involve a complex process of investor validation 
and qualification, restrictions on funds transfer, individual investment quota limits 
and various complex administrative requirements. While instituted at a country level 
these restrictions may have different consequences depending on the characteristics 
of the investor, including legal status, size of assets under management or date of 
application.  
In the case of individual companies with Foreign Ownership Limits, it may happen 
that the maximum ownership by non -national investors is reached while depositary 
receipts may continue to be available to foreign investors. In such cases, the 
depositary rece ipts typically trade at a persistent premium relative to the domestic 
shares, highlighting the difficulties for international investors to replicate the 
security's weight in the index.  
Therefore, where deemed necessary, a LIF will be determined and applied based on 
an extensive, case -by-case analysis  45. The application of this LIF permits a more 
accurate comparison of constituent markets and securities that have more complex 
and subtle restrictions on the investment process to markets and securities where 
investment limitations can be appropriately refle cted in their standard FIFs.  
In cases where MSCI applies a LIF, the free float adjusted for limited investability is 
defined as the product of the available free float for foreign investors and the LIF.  
 
Free Float -Adjusted for Limited Investability = Free Float for Foreign Investors times 
the LIF  
 
Therefore, for securities subject to other foreign investment restrictions, the Foreign 
Inclusion Factor is equal to the lesser of:  
* Estimated free float -adjusted for limited investability,  
 
45 For example - In Iceland, MSCI applies a LIF of 0 due to investability issues in Fisheries companies.  
  Rounded up to the closest 5%, if the free float -adjusted for limited investability is greater than 15%.  
 Rounded to the closest 1%, if the free float -adjusted for limited investability is less than 15%.  
* FOL rounded to the closest 1%.  
Foreign Room   
For a security that is subject to a Foreign Ownership Limit (FOL), in determining 
eligibility for index inclusion and in determining an affected constituent's weight in an 
index, MSCI will additionally take into consideration the proportion of shares still  
available to foreign investors relative to the maximum allowed (referred to as 
"foreign room"). In general, s ecurities with low foreign room may be in some 
instances not eligible for index inclusion or subject to a weight reduction through the 
application  of an adjustment factor . For more details, please refer to Sub-sections 
2.3.6.2 and 3.1.6.  
The table below provides a list of countries for which MSCI monitors  foreign room o n 
a quarterly basis.  
Eligible Markets  Country Name  
Developed Markets (DM)  AUSTRALIA  
JAPAN  
Emerging Markets (EM)  CHINA  
INDIA  
INDONESIA  
KOREA  
PHILIPPINES  
QATAR  
SAUDI ARABIA  
TAIWAN  
THAILAND * 
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES   
Frontier Markets (FM)   
TUNISIA  
VIETNAM  
Standalone Markets  ZIMBABWE   
 
*Refer Treatment of Non -Voting Depository Receipts in Thailand  
 Other than countries mentioned above, MSCI also monitors foreign room for 
telecommunication companies in Canada, airlines companies in Europe and USA for 
which the foreign room information is available on public sources.  
Example:  
Calculating Foreign Room    
Foreign ownership Limit (FOL) applied to the 
company  =40%  
Foreign shareholdings   =20%  
Foreign room   =(40% -20%)/40%  
=50%  
 
Calculating  the Free Float -Adjusted  Market Capitalization  
The free float -adjusted market capitalization of a security is calculated as the 
product of the FIF and the security's full market capitalization.  
Free Float -Adjusted Market Capitalization =  FIF times the Security's Full Market 
Capitalization  
 
  
 The following examples illustrate the calculation of the free float -adjusted market 
capitalization of securities with and without FOLs.  
Example:  
Calculating Free Float -Adjusted Market Capitalization:  
Securities Not Subject to FOLs  
      Company A  Company B  
Total number of shares outstanding   10,000,000  10,000,000  
Number of shares classified as non -free float  4,300,000  8,760,000  
Non-free float shareholding (%)    43.0%   87.6%  
Free float (%)      57.0%   12.4%  
Foreign Inclusion Factor (FIF)    0.60   0.12  
Market price ($)      500  500 
Full market capitalization ($ mm)    5,000   5,000  
Free float -adjusted market capitalization ($ mm)  3,000   600 
 
  
 Example:  
Calculating Free Float -Adjusted Market Capitalization:  
Securities Subject to FOLs  
Company C  Company D*  Company E  
Total number of shares outstanding   10,000,000  10,000,000  10,000,000  
All shares classified as non -free float   8,760,000  4,000,000  4,000,000  
       - those held by foreign investors as strategic  1,000,000  1,000,000   -  
Total non -free float shareholdings (%)   87.6   40.0   40.0  
Free float (%)      12.4   60.0   60.0  
Foreign ownership limit (%)    33.3   33.3   33.3  
Foreign strategic shareholding (%)   10.0   10.0   0.0 
Foreign ownership limit less the foreign  
strategic shareholding (%)   23.3   23.3   33.3  
Foreign Inclusion Factor (FIF)    0.12   0.25   0.33  
Market price ($)      500  500  500 
Full market capitalization ($ mm)    5,000   5,000   5,000  
Free float -adjusted market capitalization ($ mm)   600  1,250   1,650  
*This example is applicable only to companies classified in countries for which foreign room 
cannot be monitored  
  
 Treatment of Hong Kong Listed Securities With High 
Shareholding Concentration Issues  
Securities of companies included on the Hong Kong Securities and Futures 
Commission (SFC) high shareholding concentration notices are not eligible for 
inclusion in the MSCI GIMI . Such securities will remain ineligible until sufficient 
public disclosure is made by the issuing  companies confirming an increase in free 
float that results  in a Foreign Inclusion Factor equal to or larger than 0.15, following 
the SFC high shareholding concentration notice.  
Constituents of the M SCI GIMI included on  the SFC high shareholding concentration 
notices will be deleted on a quarterly basis coinc iding with the regular Index Reviews.  
At each regular Index Review MSCI will reflect the SFC high shareholding 
concentration notices until the Price Cutoff Date (as defined in section 3.1.9 ). 
Constituents of the MSCI GIMI added to the SFC high shareholding concentration 
notices after the Price Cutoff Date will be deleted from the IMI at the next Index 
Review , unless such deletion is warranted as part of the ongoing Index Review based 
on other index inclusion criteria, such as size or liquidity. Index Review changes,  
including  increasing free f loat-adjusted market capitalization or migration of such 
security will be cancelled.  
Additions of newly eligible securities to the MSCI GIMI as part of a regular Index 
Reviews may be revised until five business days before the Index Review effective 
date if such newly eligible  companies were added to the SFC high shareholding 
concentration notices after the Index Review Price Cutoff Date.  
In order to avoid potential reverse turnover , MSCI may review eligibility of companies  
included  on the SFC high shareholding concentration notice  until five business days 
before the Index Review effective date  if sufficient public disclosure is made 
available by the company  that confirms an increase in free float resulting in a Foreign 
Inclusion Factor equal to or larger than 0.15 . 
Securities deleted as a result of inclusion on the SFC high shareholding 
concentration notice would not be added back to the MSCI GIMI for a period of 12 
months after sufficient public disclosure becomes available that confirms an 
increase in free float re sulting in a Foreign Inclusion Factor equal to or larger than 
0.15.  
 
  
 Treatment of Non-Voting Depositary Receipts in Thailand  
As part of the Capital Market Development Plan, the Securities and Exchange 
Commission of Thailand set up Non -Voting Depositary Receipts (NVDRs) to improve 
the investability of the Thai capital market. NVDRs are depositary receipts issued by 
the Thai NVDR Company Limited, a subsidiary of the Stock Exchange of Thailand 
(SET) and backed by shares listed on the SET. NVDRs entitle their holders to all 
financial benefits of the underlying shares, except voting rights.  
 
Foreign ownership limits that apply to common shares do not apply to NVDRs, and 
therefore the NVDR scheme may allow foreign investors to own a greater percentage 
of shares than the foreign ownership limit of Thai companies. However, there is a 
limit on the amount of NVDRs that may be issued for financial institutions46 
(generally set at 25%). NVDRs are traded through the Local Line and as such, 
investors can buy and sell them at the price  of the Local Line .  
 
Aside from NVDRs, foreign investors may purchase the Foreign Line, where they are 
entitled to all economic rights as well as voting rights. Foreign Lines are subject to 
Foreign Ownership Limits, and investors can buy and sell them at the price  of the 
Foreign Line .  
 
Treatment for companies without NVDR issuance limits  
 
Companies with no limits on NVDR issuance are not subject to FOL and will be 
represented in the MSCI Indexes using their respective Local Lines.  
 
Treatment for companies with NVDR issuance limits  
 
Companies with limits on NVDR issuance, may be represented in the MSCI Indexes 
using both Foreign Lines and Local Lines. Each line is evaluated independently for 
potential inclusion or exclusion from the MSCI Thailand Indexes as per the index 
maintenance r ules.  
 
Company Full Market Capitalization . The company full market capitalization is 
calculated based on the price47 of the Local Line . 
 
Foreign Inclusion Factor . The free float distribution between the Foreign Line 
and the Local Line is determined as follows:  
 
 
46 Financial institutions including banks and finance companies that accept deposits from the public  
47 This will result in changes to the company  full market capitalization of BANGKOK BANK and KASIKORNBANK. 
The change s in the company full market capitalization were  reflected in the MSCI product files effective April 
16, 2019.  
 If Foreign Line is not included in Index  If Foreign Line is included in Index  
FIF (Local Line)  = Minimum (DIF, NVDR 
limit - NVDR strategic holdings)  FIF (Foreign Line)  = Minimum (DIF, FOL - 
FOREIGN strategic shareholding)  
 
FIF (Local Line)  = Minimum (DIF - FIF 
(Foreign Line) , NVDR limit - NVDR 
strategic holdings)  
 
Foreign Room . Foreign room is assessed for the Local Line relative to the 
NVDR issuance limits in line with the quarterly review of foreign room 
described in section 3.1.6.2.  
 
Foreign Lines are not monitored for low foreign room since Foreign Lines have 
secondary market trading.  
 
Early Inclusions . MSCI will not include the Foreign Line in the MSCI Indexes at 
the time of IPOs or other early inclusions. This is to provide sufficient time to 
evaluate liquidity of Foreign Lines in the secondary market. Only the Local Line 
may be considered for early i nclusion if it meets all the necessary 
requirements.  
 
Treatment of Depository Receipts where Underlying Shares are 
Not Available for Trading  
Starting from the May 2024 Index Review, MSCI will apply the below approach to 
calculate the Foreign Inclusion Factor (FIF) for Depository Receipts (DRs) where 
underlying  shares are not available for trading . 
For additions to the MSCI Global Investable Market Indexes, including the MSCI ACWI 
IMI Index, the MSCI Frontier Markets IMI, the MSCI China All Shares IMI and relevant 
MSCI J -Series Indexes, the FIF will be calculated as the lower of:  
* the FIF derived based on publicly disclosed capital raising activities at the 
time of listing and any subsequent offerings ; or 
* the FIF computed on the basis of the MSCI  Free Float Data  Methodology.  
For securities added to the indexes using the capital raising method, MSCI will 
continue to review such securities using the capital raising method in the subsequent 
Index Reviews.  
 
 For existing constituents of the MSCI Global Investable Market Indexes, including the 
MSCI ACWI IMI Index, the MSCI Frontier Markets IMI, the MSCI China All Shares IMI 
and relevant MSCI J -Series Indexes, the FIF will be calculated as the lower  of: 
* the ratio of Depository Number of Shares (NOS)/Total NOS (wherever such 
data is availabl e); or 
* the FIF computed on the basis of the MSCI  Free Float Data  Methodology.  
 
  
 Appendix VI I: Price Source for Securities  
For a full updated list of prices used in MSCI's end of day index calculations by 
country, please refer to the MSCI Index Calculation Methodology that can be found 
at:  
https://www.msci.com/index -methodology  
In certain countries significant foreign ownership limits exist for certain companies 
and/or industries. When the FOL is reached in these countries, foreign investors may 
trade with each other in an organized local market, frequently at a price higher than  
that available to domestic investors. As a result, there may be separate domestic and 
foreign board quotations.  
MSCI regularly monitors the relative liquidity and foreign ownership availability of 
constituents with separate domestic and foreign board quotations to determine 
whether prices for these constituents should reflect the domestic or foreign board 
quotations . This review occurs on a quarterly basis to coincide with the Index 
Review.  
Markets open on Saturday and/or Sunday  
In the event that a security is not traded on a Monday but was traded on the previous 
Saturday and/or Sunday, the security will have the latter price carried forward to the 
Monday.  
  
 Appendix VIII: Market Monitoring Framework and 
Potential Switch to a Light Rebalancing under 
Conditions of Market Stress  
MSCI Market Monitoring Framework  
The MSCI Market Monitoring Framework aims to continually assess the potential 
impact of market conditions on regular Index Reviews along three key dimensions: 
Market Functioning, Market Liquidity and Data Availability.  
- Market Liquidity: monitoring of security liquidity which is based on liquidity 
screening criteria required by relevant index methodologies and market liquidity 
based on MSCI ACWI bid -ask spreads and MSCI ACWI volatility  
- Market Functioning: monitoring of unexpected market closures or market 
disruptions  
- Data Availability: monitoring of company and market data required to conduct 
Index Review s 
 
Potential Switch to a Light Rebalancing during Index Reviews  
MSCI may switch to a "light rebalancing" under conditions of market stress. MSCI 
will consider switching to a "light rebalancing" only if the criteria described below are 
met. The final decision of whether or not to switch to a "light rebalancing" will be 
taken by relevant MSCI Index Committee(s), including the MSCI Equity Index 
Committee (EIC) and the MSCI Index Policy Committee (IPC).  
"Light" Rebalanc ing 
In the context of the MSCI GIMI , "light" rebalance refers to implementing the index 
maintenance methodology  as described  further in this section  in place of the usual 
Index Review index maintenance rules  described  in Section 3.2 . 
For the other MSCI index methodologies, MSCI would implement Quarterly Index 
Review (QIR) index maintenance methodology  if such are  defined in the respective 
index methodology books.  
For methodologies which rebalance annually or where QIRs are not defined, MSCI 
would proceed as per the normal rebalancing schedule.  
If the upcoming scheduled rebalance is already a QIR, then no change to the process 
would occur . 
 Market Monitoring  Period and Criteria  
MSCI sets the last ten business days of the month prior to the announcement date of 
an Index Review as the "market monitoring period." If within the "market monitoring 
period",  one of the following  two conditions  related to the Market Liquidity and 
Market Functioning pi llars of the Market Monitoring Framework  is met, a review by  
the relevant MSCI I ndex Committee (s) whether or not to switch to a "light 
rebalancing" would be triggered:  
- Market Liquidity , for any 3 days within the "market monitoring period"  
o MSCI ACWI -weighted  bid-ask spread, measured as index market 
capitalization -weighted bid -ask spread ( [ask -bid] / ask ), breaching  
0.19%  
o AND  
o MSCI ACWI volatility, measure d as the standard deviation of the daily 
returns of the MSCI ACWI over the past 10 days, breaching  0.55  
- OR 
- Market Functioning  
o Unexpected full day or partial stock exchange closures impacting 
20% of MSCI ACWI constituents  cumulative ly over the  "market 
monitoring  period " 
Communication Date and Policy  
If the criteria for the evaluation of a switch to a "light" rebalancing are met, MSCI 
would send a communication on its decision to switch to a "light" rebalancing or not, 
on or before the first business day after the "market monitoring period", also known  
as the "communication date". There would be no change to the decision to switch or 
not to switch to a "light" rebalancing following the "communication date". No 
communication would be sent if the thresholds for the evaluation of a switch to a 
"light" reba lancing are not breached during the "market monitoring period". MSCI 
would no longer consider a potential switch to a "light" rebalancing after the "market 
monitoring period" and would proceed with the scheduled Index Review . 
Over time, MSCI may review the thresholds used in the MSCI Market Monitoring 
Framework. Any resulting changes would be made public in the relevant index 
methodology documentation well in advance of the "market monitoring period ". 
 
 Index Review of the MSCI GIMI under Light Rebalancing  
Light rebalancing s aim to ensure that the indexes  continue to be an accurate 
reflection of the evolving equity marketplace  during conditions of market stress . This 
is achieved by a timely reflection of significant market driven changes that were not 
captured in the index at the time of their actual occurrence but are significant enough 
to be reflected before the next Index Review . 
Light rebalancing s may result in:  
* Additions or deletions due to migration to another Size -Segment Index  
* Addition of significant new investable companies to the Standard Index  
* Deletion of companies from the Investable Market Indexes due to low liquidity  
* Changes in FIFs and in NOS.  
The buffer zones used to manage the migration of companies from one segment to 
another are wider than those used in the Index Reviews . 
Size -Segment Migrations during Light Rebalancings  
During a light rebalancing , the following index maintenance activities are performed 
to identify migrations from one Size -Segment to another:  
* Updating the Global Minimum Size References and Global Minimum Size Ranges.  
* Reassessing the Market Size -Segment Cutoffs.  
* Assigning companies to the Size -Segment Indexes.  
* Assessing conformity with Final Size -Segment Investability Requirements.  
 
Updating the Global Minimum Size References and Global Minimum Size Ranges  
The Global Minimum Size Range is reset at the light rebalance  by recalculating the 
Global Minimum Size Reference based on the existing DM Investable Equity Universe, 
excluding any newly eligible companies, as described in    
 Appendix X: Updating the Global Minimum Size References  and Ranges . 
Reassessing the Market Size -Segment Cutoffs  
The Market Size -Segment Cutoff is determined as the full market capitalization of 
the company ranked in the Market Investable Equity Universe, excluding any newly 
eligible companies, at the Segment Number of Companies for the relevant segment.  
The buffer ranges at light rebalancings are set up to +80% above and down to -50% 
below the Market Size -Segment Cutoff between two size -segments.  
 
Assigning Companies to Appropriate Size -Segments  
During a light rebalancing , companies in the Market Investable Equity Universe are 
preliminarily assigned to the Size -Segment Indexes  until the Segment Number of 
Companies is achieved with the following priority:  
* Current constituents of a given Size -Segment Index, as well as companies 
assigned to this Size -Segment during last Index Review that failed the Final Size -
Segment Investability Requirements, greater than or equal to the Market Size -
Segment Cutoff.  
* Companies in the lower Size -Segment Index, as well as companies assigned to 
this Size -Segment during last Index Review and failed the Final Size -Segment 
Investability Requirements, greater than the upper buffer threshold of the lower 
size-segment.  
* Current constituents of a given Size -Segment Index, as well as companies 
assigned to this Size -Segment during the last Index Review that failed the Final 
Size -Segment Investability Requirements, in the lower buffer of the Size -Segment 
in descending capital ization order, until the threshold of the buffer is reached.  
* The largest companies from the upper buffer of the next lower size -segment.  
However, companies that would migrate from the lower Size -Segment Index but are 
below the lower bound of the Global Minimum Size Range, as well as companies that 
would migrate from upper Size -Segment but are above the upper bound of the Global 
Minimum Size  Range, are retained in their current Size -Segment. The Segment 
Number of Companies is increased or decreased accordingly.   
Once companies have been assigned to the Standard, Large and Investable Market 
Indexes , companies are then assigned to the Mid and Small Cap Indexes . The Mid 
Cap Index comprises the companies that are in the Standard Index but not the Large 
Cap Index. The Small Cap Index comprises the companies that are in the Investable 
Market Index but not in the Standard Index.  
 
  
Assessing Conformity with Final Size -Segment Investability Requirements  
Once the securities are assigned to the appropriate Size -Segment Indexes , the 
securities that migrate from the Small Cap Indexes  to the Standard Indexes  are 
evaluated for compliance with the additional investability requirements for the 
Standard Index. Please refer to Sub -section 2.3. 6: Applying Final Size -Segment 
Investability Requirements.   
Existing IMI constituents that exhibit extreme price increase (as per section 2.3.6.3) 
will not be eligible for migration into the Standard Indexes. Existing IMI constituents 
migrating into the Standard Index and exhibiting extreme price increase will be 
retained as Small Cap constituents.  
Similar to the foreign room treatment during Index Reviews, c urrent constituent 
securities for which there is less than 25% foreign room may have their weight 
adjusted  by the application of an adjustment factor to reflect their actual level of 
foreign room.  
The post -review adjustment factor depends on the current adjustment factor and the 
actual level of foreign room of the securities, as shown in the table below:  
 
If the foreign room of an existing constituent decreases below 3.75% , then the 
adjustment factor equal s 048. 
Foreign room level will be reviewed on a quarterly basis coinciding with the regular 
MSCI Index Reviews. Generally, an upward movement of the adjustment factor for 
existing constituents following a previous reduction in foreign room or index re -
 
48 Based on information available from the country regulatory authority, the adjustment factor equals 0 for 
securities where further purchases are restricted due to foreign ownership restriction. In case of India, MSCI 
monitors securities appearing on the Nat ional Securities Depository Limited's (NSDL) & Central Depository 
Services Limited's (CDSL) official list of securities for which the Red flag or Breach limit has been reached on a 
daily basis. MSCI deletes securities from the MSCI India Indexes that are ( i) Appearing on the Breach list (ii) 
Appearing on the Red Flag/Caution list and have foreign room below 3.75% by giving 2 business days' notice. In 
the case of Mexico, MSCI monitors the foreign investments under the Neutral Trust Program (NTP). The NTP 
structure mandates foreign investors to acquire shares only through it. MSCI deletes securities from the MSCI 
Mexico Indexes having foreign room below 3.75% by giving 2 business days' notice . 
foreign room >= 
25%15% <= foreign 
room < 25%7.5% <= foreign 
room < 15%3.75% <= foreign 
room < 7.5%foreign room 
<3.75%
Current adjustment 
factor = 1 1 1 0.5 0.25 0
Current adjustment 
factor = 0.5 1 0.5 0.5 0.25 0
Current adjustment 
factor = 0.25 1 0.5 0.25 0.25 0Post-review adjustment factor
 inclusion of a security deleted as a result of having a foreign room lower than 3.75% 
will only be considered 12 months after the weight reduction or deletion; unless the 
upward movement of the adjustment factor is primarily driven by a change in FOL 
and p rovided that the increase in FOL51 happened prior to the Price Cutoff Date of the 
previous Index Review described in Sections 3.1.9 : Date of Data Used for Index 
Review.  
For example, to be considered for the February Index Review , the potential increase 
in FOL must have happened before the Price Cutoff Date of the November Index 
Review . 
During the Index Review, for any existing IMI constituents whose weight is decreased 
as a result of a change in the adjustment factor due to low foreign room, MSCI will 
continue to monitor any potential increased foreign room due to an increase in FOL49 
until five business days before the effective date of that Index Review.  
Securities that are part of the Market Investable Equity Universe, but did not meet 
additional investability requirements at the previous Index Review  are not added to 
the Investable Market Indexes  as part of the light rebalancing , unless they meet the 
criteria outlined in Addition of Companies Currently not Constituents of the 
Investable Market Indexes during Light Rebalancings . 
Addition of Companies Currently not Constituents of the Investable 
Market Indexes during Light Rebalancings  
Securities that are currently not constituents of the Investable Market Indexes  and 
that meet the investability screens described in Sub -section 2.2  (with the exception 
of the Minimum Length of Trading Requirement) , including large IPOs that were not 
added earlier, and in addition meet the requirements listed below, are added to the 
Standard Index : 
* A full market capitalization that exceeds 1.8 times the Interim Market Size -
Segment Cutoff  for the Standard Size -Segment  
* A free float -adjusted market capitalization that exceeds 1.8 times one -half the 
Interim Market Size -Segment Cutoff  for the Standard Size -Segment  
* Securities that exhibit extreme price increase are not eligible for inclusion into 
the Standard Indexes. Please refer to section 2.3.6.3 for more details.  
 
49 Applicable only for securities still subject to FOLs. For example, if the FOL increases to 100% (i.e., FOL is no 
longer applicable) prior to the Price Cutoff Date, it will be reflected in the upcoming Index Review. In the case of 
India, MSCI would consider  potential increases in FOL based on data published by Central Depository Services 
Limited's (CDSL) and  National Securities Depository Limited's (NSDL). For securities that are not covered by 
the list provided by the CDSL/NSDL, FOL will be determined base d on publicly available data . 
 These companies are assigned to the Large Cap Index if their full market 
capitalization exceeds the Interim Market Size -Segment Cutoff for the Large Cap  
Size -Segment ; they are assigned to the Mid Cap Index otherwise.  
In addition, IPOs eligible for early inclusion according to Sub -section 3. 2.4.1, and for 
which the effective date of inclusion is either 5 days before the effective date of the 
Index Review  or 3 days after, will be made effective to coincide with the Index 
Review . For example, when the effective date of inclusion of the IPO is August 29 (3 
business days before September 1), while the effective date of the Index Review  is 
September 1, the IPO will be added effective September 1.  
For companies trading on a conditional basis (when -issued trading) prior to their  
listing and unconditional trading, MSCI assess es the inclusion of the company in the 
MSCI Indexes  based on its first day of conditional trading.  
Deletion of Companies Currently Constituents of the Investable Market 
Indexes during Light Rebalancings  
Existing constituents of the Investable Market Indexes can remain in the Investable 
Market Indexes only if:  
* The 3 -month ATVR and Frequency of Trading are at least 5% and 80% 
respectively for Developed Markets  
* The 3 -month ATVR and Frequency of Trading are at least 5% and 70% 
respectively for Emerging Markets  
If the listing used for an existing constituent no longer meets the above liquidity 
requirements, other eligible listings that do meet such liquidity requirements will be 
used to represent the security in the Market Investable Equity Universe. If the secur ity 
has two or more other eligible listings, the following priority rules would be used to 
determine which of such listings will be used to represent the security in the Market 
Investable Equity Universe:  
* Local listing50 
* Foreign listing in the same geographical region51 
* Foreign listing in a different geographical region52 
 
50 If the security has two or more local listings, then the listing with the highest 3 -month ATVR would be used . 
51 MSCI classifies markets into three main geographical regions: EMEA, Asia Pacific and Americas. If the 
security has two or more foreign listings in the same geographical region, then the listing with the highest 3 -
month ATVR would be used.  
52 If the security has two or more foreign listings in a different geographical region, then the listing with the 
highest 3 -month ATVR would be used.  
 If an existing constituent of a Standard Index in Emerging Markets fails to meet the 
liquidity requirements, but has a weight of more than 10% in the respective country 
index and its free float adjusted market capitalization is above 0.5 times the Global 
Minimum Size Reference for Emerging Markets, then such constituent will remain in 
the index. However, MSCI would apply a Liquidity Adjustment Factor of 0.5 to the 
weight of the security, an d in the subsequent Index Review , MSCI:  
* Would delete the security from the index if the security does not meet all liquidity 
requirements for existing constituents calculated after applying the Liquidity 
Adjustment Factor; or  
* Would maintain the security in the GIMI and remove the Liquidity Adjustment 
Factor if the security meets all the liquidity requirements for new constituents, 
calculated before applying the Liquidity Adjustment Factor for three  consecutive 
Index Reviews; or  
* Would continue maintaining the security in the GIMI with the Liquidity Adjustment 
Factor of 0.5 if none of the above conditions are met.  
Changes in FIF  and NOS  during Light Rebalancings  
Foreign Inclusion Factor s (FIF) and Number of Shares (NOS) will be reviewed as per 
Sub-Section 3.1.7 Index Review of Changes in Foreign Inclusion Factors (FIFs) and 
3.1.8 Index Review of Changes in Number of Shares (NOS).  
Date of Data Used for Light Rebalancings  
The standard data cutoff dates are state d in Sub -Section 3.1.9: Date of Data Used for 
Index Review.  
Index Maintenance for the  Micro Cap  Size -Segment during Light 
Rebalancings  
Light rebalancings  are only aimed at reflecting the impact of significant market 
events on FIFs and updating NOS. Typically no change in the constituents of the 
Micro Cap Size -Segment may take place at the time of light rebalancings .  
At the time of light rebalancing  a company may enter the Micro Cap Size -Segment 
only if it is deleted from the Small Cap Size -Segment due to a low liquidity and it 
satisfies the conditions specified in Sub -section 4.2.1.2.   
During a light rebalancing , a security will be deleted from the Micro Cap Size -
Segment if an FOL change results in a FIF of 0. 
  
 Appendix IX: Policy Regarding Trading Suspensions 
and Market Closures d uring Index Reviews  
Policy Regarding Trading Suspensions for Individual Securities during 
Index Reviews  
MSCI will postpo ne the implementation of I ndex Review changes for IMI 
constituents , as well as Micro Cap constituents,  when the affected securities are 
suspended53 on the day prior to the effective implementation date54 of the Index 
Review. The postponed Index Review  changes will be implemented by giving   two full 
business days (excluding the trading resumption day) after the securities starts 
trading . 
Index Review changes include:  
* Additions to, deletions from or migrations between the MSCI Large Cap, MSCI 
Mid Cap, MSCI Small Cap and MSCI Micro Cap Indexes  
* Changes in Foreign Inclusion Factor (FIF), Domestic Inclusion Factor (DIF),  
Number of Shares (NOS) or style for the relevant current and pro forma IMI and 
Micro Cap constituents  
* All Index Review changes that are postponed due to suspension will be cancelled 
two months after the effective date of the Index Review if the securities are still 
suspended and will be implemented at the Index Review following the securities' 
resumption o f trading if still warranted.  
* Additions of Chinese securities to all MSCI Indexes55 (including pro forma MSCI 
China Indexes, MSCI China A Inclusion Indexes, MSCI China All Shares Indexes 
and MSCI China A Onshore Indexes) will be cancelled instead of postponed if the 
securities are suspended on the day prior to the effective implementation of the 
Index Review.  The inclusion of the security will be re -evaluated at the next Index 
Review.  
Policy Regarding Market Closures during Index Reviews  
During  Index Reviews, the following principles apply in case of market closures on 
the day of implementation. As a reminder, the effective implementation date for each 
 
53 The suspension status is taken as per the close of the regular trading time of the relevant stock exchange.  
54 In cases where the Index Review  effective date falls on a Tuesday, the postponement for suspended 
securities in indexes calculated from Sunday to Thursday will be reviewed on Sunday. For details on the Sunday 
- Thursday Index Calculation Methodology, refer to Appendix XII of the MSCI In dex Calculation Methodology.  
55 Non-current IMI constituent  
 Index Reviews  is as of the close of the last business day of February , May,  August  
and November .  
Market Closures Due to Scheduled Stock Market Holidays  
When a given stock market is closed on the scheduled implementation date due to 
stock market holiday, the change will be effective on the next business day, using the 
price of the previous business day's close.  
MSCI will change the implementation date for Index Reviews if markets cumulatively 
constituting more than 20% of the MSCI All Country World Index market 
capitalization are expected to be either closed or experience low liquidity on that day.  
Unexpected Full Trading Day Market Closures  
In the event that the primary stock market in a country fails to open for trading and 
remains closed for the entire trading day on the implementation date of the review 
due to an unexpected market closure, MSCI will postpone the implementation of the 
addit ions to and deletions from the MSCI All Countries World Index (ACWI), as well 
as the changes in FIF and NOS with a combined impact on the country index of at 
least 50bp, resulting from the Index Review of the MSCI Global Investable Market 
Indexes  for that specific country index. MSCI will implement the above changes as a 
result of the Index Review for that country as of the close of the first business day 
(Monday to Friday) that the specific market reopens for trading and closing prices 
are available. In th e event of unexpected closures of stock markets in more than one 
country, MSCI will evaluate the situation and may apply a different policy.  
For smaller countries, however, in the event of unexpected market closures, MSCI 
reserves the right to implement the Index Review  changes  using the closing price of 
the last day the market was open.  
Unexpected Market Closures of Less Than a Full Trading Day  
The trading suspensions of less than one full trading day will not trigger any 
postponement of the implementation of the Index Review of the MSCI Global 
Investable Market Indexes . 
Market Outage during the Trading Day  
In the event that a market is affected by an outage during the trading day on the 
effective implementation date, MSCI will determine its pricing policy for the relevant 
country on a case -by-case basis. In making its decision, MSCI will take into 
considerat ion a number of factors, including the time and duration of the outage, 
information on the outage provided by the specific stock exchange, and other 
relevant market information.  
 MSCI will communicate all decisions taken with respect to market outages during 
the day through the regular client communication channels as well as via Reuters 
(Pages MSCIA and following) and Bloomberg (MSCN).  
  
 Appendix X: Updating the Global Minimum Size 
References and Ranges  
As markets evolve due to events and price performance, the Global Minimum Size 
Reference and ranges are calculated on a daily basis using the following general 
principles.  
General Principles for Updating the Global Minimum Size 
References and Ranges  
* The Investable Market Index Global Minimum Size Reference  for Developed 
Markets is the full company market capitalization of the company at the same 
rank that determined the Investable Market Index Global Minimum Size 
Reference at the previous Index Review (that is not a light rebalancing)  as long as 
the cumulative free float -adjusted market capitalization coverage of the existing 
DM Investable Equity Universe at that rank is between 99% and 99.25%.  If the 
coverage at that rank is not between 99% and 99.25 %, the rank is reset to the first 
company that reaches a cumulative free float -adjusted representation of not less 
than 99% (if below) or not more than 99.25% (if above) and the Global Minimum 
Size Reference is recalculated.  
* The Standard Index Global Minimum Size Reference  for Developed Markets is 
the full company market capitalization of the company ranked at the same rank 
that determined the Standard Index Global Minimum Size Reference at the 
previous Index Review (that is not a light rebalancing)  as long as the cumulative 
free float -adjusted market capitalization coverage of the existing DM Investable 
Equity Universe at that rank is between 85 and 87%. If the coverage at that rank is 
not between 85% and 87%, the rank is rese t to that company that reaches a 
cumulative free float -adjusted representation of not less than 85% (if below) or 
not more than 87% (if above) and the Global Minimum Size Reference is 
calculated.  
* The Large Cap Index Global Minimum Size Reference  for Developed Markets is 
the full company market cap of the company ranked at the same rank that 
determined the Large Cap Index Global Minimum Size Reference at the previous 
Index Review (that is not a light rebalancing)   as long as the cumulative free float -
adjusted market capitalization coverage of the existing DM Investable Equity 
Universe at that rank is between 70 and 72%. If the coverage at that ra nk is not 
between 70% and 72%, the rank is reset to tha t company that reaches a 
cumulative free float -adjusted representation of not less than 70% (if below) or 
not more than 72% (if above) and the Global Minimum Size Reference is 
recalculated.  
 * For Emerging Markets  the Global Minimum Size Reference for each size -
segment is set at half of the USD Global Minimum Size Reference for Developed 
Markets.  
* For Frontier Markets the Global Minimum Size Reference s are calculate d using 
the same  approach  as for Developed Markets , but are based on the  FM 
Investable Equity Universe . 
Using the rank of the company that determined the Global Minimum Size Reference 
at the previous Index Review (that is not a light rebalancing)   - within acceptable 
representation ranges - is aimed at providing more stable Global Minimum Size 
References, compared to an approach that focuses on a targeted percentile 
coverage.  
The existing DM Investable  Equity  Universe is used to keep the Global Minimum Size 
Reference up to date on a daily basis and at Light Rebalancings . For Index Review 
(that are not a light rebalancing)  , the fully updated DM Investable  Equity  Universe is 
used.  
 
Example:  
At the previous Index Review  of the Standard Indexes, the Global 
Minimum Size Reference was determined to be USD 3.95 billion and 
reflected the market capitalization of the 1700th company in the DM 
Investable  Equity   Universe with a cumulative free float -adjusted 
market coverage of 85% at that rank. In the current Index Review , the 
market capitalization of the 1700th company is chosen as the pro 
forma Global Minimum Size Reference. If the cumulative free float -
adjusted market capitalization coverage of the 1700 companies is 
between 85 - 87% of the DM Investable  Equity  Universe, the full 
market capitalization of the 1700th company will be used as the new 
Global Minimum Size Reference. If, however, the cumulative free 
float -adjusted market capitalization of the DM Investable  Equity  
Universe is 88%, then the rank of the company determining the Global 
Minimum Size Reference is reset. In this case, suppose the top 1600 
companies cumulatively cover 87% of the free float -adjusted market 
capitalization, then the market capitalization of th e 1600th company is 
the new Global Minimum Size Reference for the DM Standard 
Indexes. At the next Index Review , the full market capitalization of the 
1600th company will be the pro forma Global Minimum Size 
Reference . 
  
 Appendix X I: Frontier Markets Country Classification  
The table below provides the country classification in terms of minimum liquidity that 
MSCI uses as basis for the maintenance of the MSCI Frontier Markets Indexes and of 
Standalone Market Indexes.  
  
 
MSCI Frontier Markets Indexes  
Very Low Liquidity  
(2.5% ATVR)  Low Liquidity  
(5% ATVR)  Average Liquidity  
(15% ATVR)  
Bahrain  Iceland  Bangladesh  
Baltic States**  Jordan  Pakistan  
Croatia  Kazakhstan  Vietnam  
Kenya                               Oman   
Mauritius  Romania   
Morocco    
Serbia    
Slovenia    
Sri Lanka    
Tunisia    
WAEMU** *   
 
Standalone Market Indexes^  
Very Low Liquidity  
(2.5% ATVR)  Low Liquidity  
(5% ATVR)  Average Liquidity  
(15% ATVR)  
Bosnia -Herzegovina   Argentina  
Botswana    
Bulgaria    
Jamaica    
Lebanon    
Malta    
Nigeria    
Panama    
Palestine    
Trinidad & Tobago    
Ukraine    
Zimbabwe    
^The list includes all Standalone Market Indexes rebalanced using the MSCI Frontier Markets Liquidity Thresholds.  
**The Baltic States consists of the following member countries: Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania  
***The West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU) consists of the following member countries: Benin, Burkina 
Faso, Ivory Coast, Guinea -Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal and Togo  
 
The categorization is reviewed at each Index Review.  
 
 
 
  
Appendix X II: MSCI DR Indexes   
Constructing the MSCI DR Indexes  
The MSCI DR Indexes  are constructed by substituting the constituents of the 
corresponding MSCI  Standard Indexes  (herein, "Parent Indexes ") with liquid 
Depositary Receipts (DR) for each constituent.  Only level II and level III American 
Depositary Receipts (ADR) listed on the New York Stock Exchange or  the NASDAQ, 
Global Depositary Receipts (GDR) as well as ADRs listed on the London Stock 
Exchange are  eligible for inclusion in the MSCI DR Indexes . DRs are deemed liquid if 
their ATVR is 15% or above. If  more t han one DR exists for a constituent, the most 
liquid listing will be included in the MSCI DR Index.  
Constituents of the Parent Indexes  without DR listings are excluded from the MSCI 
DR Indexes . 
Maintaining the MSCI DR Indexes  
Number of Shares (NOS) and Foreign Inclusion Factors (FIF) used for DRs 
in the MSCI DR Indexes   
The NOS of the DRs in the MSCI DR Indexes  is based on the maximum DRs that 
could be issued by dividing the number of shares of the Parent Index by the DR ratio 
(ratio between the common shares and the DRs). The purpose of this is to allow the 
DR to reflect accurately the full market capitalizatio n of the company in the DR 
Indexes . 
The FIF is the same as the Parent Index constituent' s FIF in order to reflect 
accurately the free -float adjusted market capitalization of the security.  
Quarterly Listing Reviews  
There is a Quarterly Listing Review, which coincides with the regular Quarterly Index  
Reviews of the Parent Indexes . At each Quarterly Listing Review, all listings for all 
constituents of the  Parent Index are examined. If a new liquid DR for a current 
constituent of the Parent Index, which is not a constituent of the MSCI DR Index, is 
identified, it is added to the MSCI DR Index as part of the Review. The DR must be 
listed and trading for at le ast three months before being added to the MSCI DR Index.  
Constituents of the MSCI DR Indexes  with an ATVR below 10% will be excluded from 
the MSCI DR Indexes as part of the Quarterly Listing Review.  
 All constituents deleted from the Parent Indexes  resulting from Index Reviews will be 
simultaneously deleted from the MSCI DR Indexes , provided the asset was  included 
in the MSCI DR Indexes . Additions to the Parent Indexes  will be added to the 
corresponding  MSCI DR Indexes  only if they meet the liquidity and seasoning 
requirements.  
Index Review of Changes in NOS and in FIF  
Updates in NOS and FIF to the Parent Indexes  will be applied simultaneously to the 
corresponding DRs adjusted by the respective DR ratio.  
Ongoing Event Related Changes  
The implementation in the MSCI DR Indexes  of changes in security level information, 
such as FIF and NOS, as a result of corporate events generally mirrors the 
implementation of these events in the Parent Indexes . This rule will normally apply to 
deletions, changes in the number of shares and FIFs, of securities due to mergers 
and acquisitions, conversion of shares, or share placements and offerings.  
For rights issues opened only to local shareholders, MSCI will not apply a  Price 
Adjustment Factor  (PAF) to the market price of the DR, but will increase the number 
of shares of the DR simultaneously with the change for the Parent Indexes , in order 
to keep the DR ratio constant.  
Corporate actions such as splits, reverse splits, consolidations, stock dividends, and 
spin offs which affect the Parent Indexes  and its DRs may occur either at the same 
time or at different times due to, for example, differences in operational procedures 
in the stock exchanges of the DR and the underlying security. Therefore, MSCI will 
take the ex -date provided by the correspondin g Stock Exchange of both the parent 
and the DR.  
In the case of a stock split involving a change in the DR ratio, it might result only in a 
change in the number of shares and a PAF for the parent and not for the DR or vice 
versa.  
Despite the full replication of the event maintenance, the impact of a given event on 
the Parent Index and on the DR Index may be different as a result of potential price 
discrepancies between respective listings at the time of the implementation of the 
event. 
Additions and Deletions due to Corporate Events  
For a constituent added to a Parent Index following a corporate event, the most liquid 
DR for such  constituent will be eligible for inclusion in the respective MSCI DR Index 
at the next regularly scheduled  Index Review, provided it meets all index inclusion  
requirements.  
 A constituent deleted from a Parent Index following a corporate event will be 
simultaneously deleted  from the corresponding MSCI DR Index, provided the 
corresponding DR listing was included in the MSCI  DR Index.  
IPOs  
DRs of IPOs which are significant in size and included early in the MSCI Global 
Standard Indexes  according  to Sub-section 3. 2.4.1, will be simultaneously included 
in the MSCI DR Indexes . 
Dividend Reinvestment for DRs Indexes  
As per the MSCI Index Calculation Methodology, cash dividends paid to DR 
constituents are reinvested in the MSCI DR indexes  on the ex -date of the DR dividend.  
Withholding tax  
MSCI uses companies' country of incorporation of the Parent Indexes  to determine 
the relevant dividend withholding tax rate applied to the DR in calculating the gross 
and net dividends. Consequently, for DR the withholding tax rates will be the same 
one used for the Parent Indexes .  
Dividend Fees Payable by DR Holders  
Normally a dividend fee is applied to dividends paid by DRs. This fee is an 
administrative cost associated with processing the dividend and it is a standard 
practice for depositary banks to charge it to the DR shareholders. MSCI does not 
take into account this dividend fee amount in the calculat ion of gross and net 
dividends . 
 
 
 
  
 Appendix XI II: MSCI Domestic  Index es  
The MSCI Domestic Indexes  are designed to represent the performance of the 
domestic equity markets of certain countries.  
Most of the MSCI Domestic  Index es are based on the  MSCI Global Investable Market 
Indexes Methodology. The indexes use the Domestic Inclusion Factor (DIF) as the 
free float adjustment factor for the market capitalization of each security. MSCI 
defines the free float of a  security as the proportion of tradable shares outstanding 
that are deemed to be available for purchase in the public equity markets by 
domestic investors. In practice, limitations on free float available to domestic 
investors also include st rategic and other shareholdings and these are  not 
considered as part of available free float.  Free float of MSCI GIMI and MSCI 
Domestic indexes are reviewed, as defined in Sub -Section 3.1.7 based on the date of 
data defined in Sub -Section 3.1.9 . Please see Appendix V I for details on MSCI Free 
Float Definition and Estimation Guidelines . Currently, MSCI Domestic Indexes based 
on the  MSCI Global Investable Market Indexes Methodology are available for China56, 
India , GCC Countries (Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab 
Emirates) , Korea  and Australia57. 
 
MSCI China A Onshore Indexes  
The MSCI China A  Onshore  Index es, referred to as the MSCI China A Indexes prior to 
March 1, 2018,  are part of the MSCI Domestic Indexes.  
The MSCI China A  Onshore  Index es are based on the  MSCI Global Investable Market 
Indexes , with the following methodology adaptations:  
Equity Universe:  
For the MSCI China A  Onshore  Index es, the universe is defined as all China A shares 
listed on the Shanghai and Shenzhen Stock Exchanges. In general, all listed equity 
securities, or listed securities that exhibit characteristics of equity securities, except 
investment trusts, mutual funds an d equity derivatives, are eligible for inclusion in the 
universe. Securities with a "ST" or "*ST" status are excluded from the Equity Universe  
(see Appendix I for more details) .  
 
56 The domestic China Index is known the MSCI China A Onshore Index.  
57 The domestic Australia and Korea Indexes are known as the MSCI Australian Shares Indexes and the MSCI 
Korean Shares Indexes respectively.   
 Equity Universe Minimum Size:  
The Equity Universe Minimum Size applied to the MSCI China A Index es are based on 
the Global Minimum Size Reference of the Emerging Markets under the MSCI Global 
Investable Market Indexes  Methodology.  
Assigning a Free Float -Adjustment Factor:  
MSCI defines the free float of a China A security as the proportion of tradable shares 
outstanding that are deemed to be available for purchase in the public equity 
markets by domestic investors. In practice, limitations on free float available to 
domestic  investors also include strategic and other shareholdings that are not 
considered part of available free float.  
MSCI free float -adjusts the market capitalization of each security using an 
adjustment factor referred to as the Domestic Inclusion Factor (DIF).  The DIF is not 
subject to Foreign Ownership Limits (FOL).  
Currently, the index market capitalization of securities in the MSCI China A Onshore 
Indexes is determined as Domestic Inclusion Factor * Security Full Market 
Capitalization as in the MSCI Global Investable Market Indexes.  
Investment Sanctions Related to U.S. Executive Order 13959  
The MSCI China A  Onshore  Index es will not take into account  investment  sanctions  
related to  the U.S. Executive Order 13959 dated November 12, 2020 which Prohibits 
Transactions by U.S. Persons in Certain Chinese Companies  (the "Order") . 
MSCI K -Series Indexes : 
The MSCI K -Series Indexes are parallel versions of the MSCI China A Onshore 
Indexes that exclude relevant securities impacted by the investment sanctions 
related to the Order . 
The treatment of investment sanctions related to the Order in the MSCI K -Series 
Indexes mirrors the treatment of such sanctions in the MSCI Global Investable 
Market Indexes , as described in Appendix V: Treatment of Investment Sanctions 
Related to U.S. Executive Order 13959.  
* Any changes to the list  of securities impacted by this treatment  would  be publicly 
announced.  
 
  
 Appendix XIV: MSCI China Indexes  
MSCI offers a range of equity indexes designed to represent the performance of the 
China equity market. The table below outlines the MSCI China Indexes.  
MSCI China Indexes Offering  
 
 
The MSCI China All Shares Index es are built on the basis of the integrated China 
Equity Universe, including China A shares. The MSCI China All Shares Indexes  are 
designed to represent the opportunity set of China share classes.  They  will be used 
as the basis for the construction of the MSCI China Indexes, included in Emerging 
Markets, subject to additional screening and inclusion factors, as well as the newly 
launched MSCI China A Indexes, which reflect only securities available through the 
Stock Connect  program.  
The MSCI China A International Indexes  are constructed to represent the 
performance of the China A shares component of the MSCI China All Shares Index es. 
These indexes include China A shares regardless of their eligibility for trading 
through the Stock Connect program.  
For more details on the MSCI China All Shares  and MSCI China A International 
Indexes, please refer to the MSCI China All Shares Indexes Methodology58. 
The MSCI China Indexes  are designed to represent the performance of the Chinese 
securities that are included in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index es. In addition to the 
Red-chips, P -chips, B shares, H shares and foreign listings,  Stock C onnect eligible 
Large C ap and Mid Cap  China A shares and CDRs are included  at 20% of their  actual  
free float -adjusted market capitalization  using the Stock Connect listing.  
 
58 Available on https://www.msci.com/index -methodology  
A Shares CDR*Connect 
eligible 
onlySize-
SegmentListingIndex 
Inclusion 
FactorFree Float 
Inclusion 
Factor
MSCI China All Shares Index        L/M/S Onshore FIF
MSCI China A International Index  L/M/S Onshore FIF
MSCI China Indexes         L/M Connect 20% FIF
MSCI China A Inclusion Index   L/M Connect FIF
MSCI China A Inclusion RMB Index   L/M Onshore FIF
MSCI China A Index   L/M Connect FIF
MSCI China A RMB Index   L/M Onshore FIF
MSCI China A Onshore Index  L/M/S Onshore DIF
* CDRs are generally subject to the same requirements as China A shares, including Stock Connect eligibility further described in Appendix on Index Maintenance of the MSCI 
China Indexes. CDRs are not included in the MSCI China A Onshore Index, MSCI China A Index, MSCI China A Inclusion Index and MSCI China A International Index.Share Class
Domestic
Integrated China Equity Universe
Domestic China A Shares Equity UniverseMSCI China IndexesB Shares H Shares Red ChipsP 
ChipsForeign 
Listings
 Following the inclusion of Mid Cap China A shares in the MSCI Emerging Markets 
Index in the November 2019 Index Review , the MSCI China A Indexes59 represent the 
performance of the China A shares portion of the MSCI China Index . 
The MSCI China A Indexes are calculated using the Stock Connect listing based on 
the offshore  RMB exchange rate (CNH) , while the MSCI China A RMB Indexes are 
variants of the MSCI China A Indexes that are calculated using China A local  listings 
based on the o nshore RMB exchange rate (CN Y). 
The MSCI China A Inclusion Index es60 represent  the China A share portion of the 
MSCI China Index  and are identical to the MSCI China A Indexes following the 
inclusion of Mid Cap China A shares in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index. These 
indexes are also calculated using the CNH and CNY rates similar to the MSCI China A 
Indexes.  
In addition, MSCI will also continue to calculate the MSCI China A Onshore Indexes61 
which are based on the Domestic Inclusion Factor (DIF) that is not subject to FOL 
and constructed only on the basis of the China A Equity Universe. Until March 1 2018, 
these indexes were named the MSCI China A Indexes.  
 
59 Please refe r to Appendix XVI I for more details.  
60 Please refe r to Appendix XVI for more details.  
61 Please refer to Appendix XII for more details on the MSCI China A Onshore Ind exes.  
 Appendix XV: Index Maintenance of the MSCI China 
Indexes  
This section has been updated in January 202062. 
Inclusion of China A Shares in the MSCI China Indexes  
China A shares were initially included in the MSCI Emerging Markets and the MSCI 
China Indexes following a two -step inclusion process as part of the May 2018 Index 
Review  and August 2018 Index Review . Large cap China A shares were included in 
the MSCI China Indexes with an index inclusion factor (IIF) of 2.5% in the May 2018 
Index Review which was later increased to 5% in the August 2018  Index Review  
The weight of China A shares in the MSCI China Indexes was further increased in 
2019 to 10%, 15% and 20% as part of the May 2019 Index Review , August 2019 Index 
Review  and November 2019 Index Review , respectively. Mid Cap China A shares 
were also added as part of the November 2019 Index Review . 
Index Maintenance of the MSCI China Indexes  
This section  should be read in conjunction with the earlier Section 2 'Constructing the 
MSCI Global Investable Market Indexes ' and Section 3 'Maintaining the MSCI Global 
Investable Market Indexes' as it describes only the points specific to maintenance of 
the MSCI China Indexes.   
The MSCI China All Shares Indexes are the basis for the construction of the MSCI 
China Indexes included in Emerging Markets, subject to additional screening and 
inclusion factors.  
 
62 The MSCI China Indexes in this section refers to the MSCI China Indexes included in the MSCI Emerging 
Markets Indexes.  
  
Integrated MSCI China Equity Universe  
The MSCI China Indexes will be maintained using the MSCI Global Investable Market 
Indexes methodology under the Emerging Market framework. They  will be 
constructed on the basis of the integrated MSCI China Equity Universe comprised of 
A-shares , CDRs63 and B-shares listed in China, H -shares, Red -chips, and P -
chips listed in Hong Kong and foreign listing s listed outside China or Hong Kong, 
identical to the universe used for the construction of the MSCI China All Shares 
Index.  
While all share classes from the integrated China Equity Universe will be included in 
the construction of the MSCI Investable Equity Universe, as well as in the process of 
allocation of companies into the Size -Segments, China A shares of companies 
allocate d to the Small Cap Size -Segments as well as China A shares not available 
through the Stock Connect will not be included in the MSCI China Indexes.  
 
63 CDRs are generally subject to the same requirements as China A shares, including Stock Connect eligibility 
further described in this section.  
Information Classification: GENERALINTEGRATED MSCI CHINA EQUITY UNIVERSE
Integrated MSCI China Equity Universe
-> A-shares, CDRs and B -shares listed in China
-> H-shares, Red -chips, P -chips listed in HK
-> foreign listed companies
Apply Investability Screens
Integrated MSCI China Investable 
Universe
Reassessing Segment Number of Companies 
and Market Size -Segment Cutoffs
Assigning Companies to Appropriate Size 
Segments
Assessing Conformity with Final Size -Segment 
Investability Requirements
MSCI China All Shares
Intra -quarter changes due to Corporate Events
Stock Connect Screen on China A shares
MSCI China A
InternationalChina A Share component
MSCI China A
Size-Segment Consideration 
(exclude Mid and Small Cap China A shares)
MSCI China A
Inclusion
MSCI China
MSCI China All 
Shares
Full China Universe
 Calculation of Market Capitalization  
For the purpose of index rebalancing , the security market capitalization of all the  
China  A shares in the integrated China equity universe will be converted to US Dollars 
using onshore RMB exchange rate (CNY)  regardless whether CNY or CNH rate is 
used for index calculation. For example, the issuer market capitalization of a 
company used as part of the rebalancing for the CNY or CNH based indexes would 
be the same and would be based on the CNY exchange rate.  
Impact of the Index Inclusion Factor for the Index Construction  
The IIF, if applicable,  will not be taken into consideration in the context of an index 
inclusion decision.  However, it  will be applied in addition to the FIF in the calculatio n 
of the security index weights. More specifically, the IIF  will not have any impact on 
the calculation of a security's free float -adjusted market capitalization, Annualized 
Traded Value Ratios (ATVRs) or foreign room that will be screened  as part of the 
rebalancing process at the time of Index Reviews.  
Investability Requirements  
In addition to the Investability Requirements described in section 2.2, MSCI will 
exclude newly eligible securities (securities that are not current constituents of the 
Investable Market Indexes) from the investable equity universe if the securities:  
- Are suspended on the Price Cutoff date, or  
- Have been suspended for at least 50 days consecutively in the past 12 
months64 
Companies and securities are evaluated based on the integrated MSCI China Equity 
Universe. China A shares of companies will be assessed  based on their current 
status in the MSCI China All Shares Indexes  for this requirement, subject to the 
relevant buffer rules.  
Calculation of the Market Size -Segment Cutoffs and Assigning 
Companies to the Size -Segments  
The Market Size -Segment Cutoffs and the Size -Segment allocation of companies are 
based  on the integrated MSCI China Investable E quity Universe. China A shares of 
companies will be assessed  based on their current status in the MSCI China All 
Shares Indexes  for this requirement, subject to the relevant buffer rules. After this 
 
64 As of each day from the effective date of the Index Review one year prior to the price cutoff date of the 
current Index Review (for example: a non -Index constituent suspended for 50 days as of any day from June 1, 
2017, the effective date of the May 2017 Index Review , to April 23, 2018, the price cutoff date of the May 2018 
Index Review , would not have been eligible for the Investable Market Universe of the May 2018 Index Review ) 
 step, allocation to Size -Segments within the MSCI China Indexes is identical to  the 
MSCI China All Shares Index es. 
Foreign Ownership Limits and Foreign Room  
MSCI currently applies a Foreign Ownership Limit of 30% on all China A shares.  
MSCI will monitor the Foreign Room of China A shares and will apply the necessary 
adjustment factors according to section 3.1.6.2.  
Assessing Conformity with Final Size -Segment Investability 
Requirements  
Like for any other market, once companies are assigned to each Size -Segment, the 
securities of companies are evaluated for conformity with the additional Size -
Segment Investability Requirements for each Size -Segment. However, in addition to 
the requirement s described in the relevant sections, such as Section 2.3.6 and 3.1.6, 
China A shares are further screened on the basis of their Stock Connect eligibility , 
Size -Segment allocation status , as well additional full company market capitalization 
requirements .  
More specifically , during Index Reviews , China A shares that are non -current 
constituents of the MSCI China Index and assigned to the Large Cap or Mid Cap Size -
Segments must meet the following requirements to be added to the MSCI China 
Index:  
- 1.0x the Standard Cutoff in terms of company full market capitalization  
- 0.5x the Standard Cutoff in terms of security FIF -adjusted market 
capitalization  
o Securities with FIF below 0.15 must meet 1.8x 0.5x the Standard 
Cutoff in terms of Security FIF -adjusted Market Capitalization  
- Stock Connect eligibility  
China A shares assigned to Small Cap Size -Segment will not be added to the MSCI 
China Indexes.  
China A shares that are existing constituents of the MSCI China Index must meet the 
requirements specified in Section 3.1.6 and remain Stock Connect eligible to be 
retained in the MSCI China Index.  
Stock Connect Eligibility  
China A Shares that are eligible for both buy and sell under either the Shanghai 
Connect or the Shenzhen Connect program will be eligible for inclusion to the MSCI 
China Index.  
 Stock Connect eligibility will be reviewed on a quarterly basis coinciding with the 
regular MSCI Index Reviews. A China A share will only be considered for inclusion to 
the Stock Connect compatible indexes if it becomes accessible through the Stock 
Connect  program on or prior to the Index Review Price Cutoff Date.  
For example, a China A share becoming accessible through the Stock Connect 
programs after the Price Cutoff Date of the May Index Review  will not be considered 
for the May Index Review . 
Additions of China A Shares  during Light Rebalancing s 
During a Light Rebalancing , China A shares that are non -current constituents of the 
MSCI China Index must meet the following requirements to be added to the MSCI 
China Index:  
- 1.8x the Interim Market Size -Segment Cutoff in terms of company full market 
capitalization  
- 1.8x one -half times the Interim Market Size -Segment Cutoff in terms of 
security FIF -adjusted market capitalization  
- Stock Connect eligibility  
Stock Connect Daily Limit Breach  
MSCI will not postpone the implementation of Index Review changes for Stock 
Connect listings of China A shares when the Stock Connect daily limit is breached on 
the effective implementation date.  
Ongoing Event Related Changes  
The ongoing event -related changes to the MSCI China  Indexes primarily follow the 
MSCI GIMI Methodology and the MSCI Corporate Events Methodology.  
In order to reflect accessibility of securities trading on Stock Connect and keep the 
MSCI Indexes replicable, methodologies were enhanced in order to more accurately 
reflect the investment process of Stock Connect investors, especially for cases when 
Stoc k Connect is closed but the onshore Chinese domestic market is trading.  
Details of the treatment of Stock Connect China A shares can be found in Appendix 
VII of the MSCI Corporate Events Methodology.  
This section provides details on specific Corporate Events treatment of China A 
Stock Connect securities in the MSCI China Indexes in relation to their status in MSCI 
China All Shares.  
 Stock Connect Eligibility  
Existing China A share constituents of the Stock Connect compatible indexes that 
are no longer accessible through the Stock Connect programs will be deleted from 
the index es with a notice period of at least two full business days.   
If the impacted securities are suspended on the day prior to the implementation date, 
MSCI will postpone the implementation. The postponed deletions will be 
implemented two days after the securities resume trading.  
Stock Connect Daily Limit Breach  
MSCI will not postpone the implementation of corporate events for Stock Connect 
listings of China A shares when the Stock Connect daily limit is breached on the 
effective implementation date.  
Early Inclusions  
IPOs of China A shares will only be reviewed for addition  to the MSCI China Index at 
subsequent Index Reviews in order to assess the Stock Connect eligibility of the 
security.  
Other cases of early inclusion of China A shares (for example but not limited to spin 
off, merger, acquisition) will only be considered for inclusion in the MSCI China 
Indexes  
- if the event involves an existing constituent of the index,  
- if the new security is assigned  to the Large Cap  or Mid Cap  size-segment,  
- and if the Stock Connect  eligibility of the security  is announced on or before 
the day of MSCI sending "Confirmed" corporate event announcement for the 
relevant event.  
The IIF applicable to a newly added security will be the same as the IIF of the Parent 
security. The treatment for such cases, if any, would be communicated to clients 
with sufficient advance notice through the regular channels.  
For example, a spin -off resulting from an existing Large Cap  or Mid Cap  China A 
share constituent of the MSCI China Index that qualifies for the Small  Cap size -
segment would not be added to the MSCI China Index but would be reviewed for 
inclusion in the following Index Review.  
As another example, if a merger between an existing Large Cap China A share 
constituent of the MSCI China Index and a Small  Cap China A share not represented 
in the MSCI China Index results in a new security that qualifies for the Large Cap 
size-segment, the new security will be included in the MSCI China Index.  
Furthermore, migrations of China A shares to the Large Cap  or Mid  Cap Size -
Segment from the Small Cap Size -Segment of the MSCI China All Shares Indexes 
outside regular Index Reviews will not be added to the MSCI China Index. However, 
 migrations of China A shares from the Large Cap  or Mid Cap  Size -Segment to the 
Small Cap Size -Segment of MSCI China All Shares Indexes outside of regular Index 
Reviews will be simultaneously deleted from the MSCI China Index.  
For example, if a China A share constituent of the MSCI China All Shares IMI is 
migrating from Small Cap to Large Cap  or Mid Cap  due to a corporate event, the 
China A share security will not be added to the MSCI China Index at the time of the 
implementation of the corporate event and will be considered for inclusion in the 
following Index Review for MSCI China Index. However, if a China A share constituent 
of the MSCI China All shares IMI is migrating from Large Cap  or Mid Cap  to Small 
Cap due to a corporat e event, the China A share security will be deleted from the 
Large Cap or Mid Cap Size -Segment of MSCI China Index at the time of the 
implementation of the corporate event.  
Calculation of the Interim Market Size -Segment Cutoffs  
The Interim Market Size -Segment Cutoffs are calculated based on the integrated 
MSCI China Investable Equity Universe. The Interim Size -Segment Cutoffs for the 
MSCI China Indexes and the MSCI China All Shares Indexes will be the same starting 
from June 1 20 18. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix XVI: MSCI China A Inclusion Indexes  
The MSCI China A Inclusion Index and MSCI China A Inclusion RMB Index are 
designed to track the progressive partial inclusion of A shares in the MSCI Emerging 
Markets Index over time.  
The MSCI China A Inclusion Index is designed for global investors accessing the A 
shares market using the Stock Connect framework . 
The MSCI China A Inclusion RMB Index is designed for domestic China investors.  
The Indexes are constructed to represent the performance of the China A shares 
component of the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  
Index Construction  
At initial construction, the constituents of the MSCI China A Inclusion Indexes were  
derived from the MSCI China A Large Cap Provisional Index  by excluding securities 
that have been suspended for 50 consecutive days or more. The MSCI China A Large 
Cap Provisional Index reflect ed the China A shares which were included  in Emerging 
Markets in June 2018.  
While the MSCI China A Large Cap Provisional Index was discontinued after June 
2018, the MSCI China A Inclusion Indexes continue to reflect the China A shares 
which are included in Emerging Markets.  
Mid Cap China A shares were included as part of the November 2019 Index Review . 
Index Maintenance  
The constituents of the MSCI China A Inclusion  Index are derived from the MSCI 
China  Index at each Index Review by including only the China A shares component . 
Following the inclusion of Mid Cap China A shares, the MSCI China A Inclusion 
Indexes are identical to the MSCI China A Indexes.  
The ongoing event -related changes to the  MSCI China A Inclusion Index follow the 
MSCI GIMI Methodology . For more information on the details of the implementation 
of ongoing event related changes, please refer to section 3. 2 of the MSCI GIMI 
Methodology and the MSCI Corporate Events Methodology.   
Index Calculation  
The MSCI China Inclusion Index is calculated using China A Stock Connect listings 
based on the offshore RMB exchange rate (CNH) . 
The MSCI China Inclusion RMB Index is calculated using China A local  listings based 
on the o nshore RMB exchange rate (CN Y). 
 Appendix XV II: MSCI China A Indexes  
The MSCI China A Index es65 and the MSCI China A RMB Index es are designed to 
represent the performance of the China A shares portion of the MSCI China Index . 
The MSCI China A Index es are designed for global investors accessing the  China  A 
shares market through  the Stock Connect  program.  
The MSCI China A RMB Index es are designed for domestic China investors  and have 
the same constituents as the MSCI China A Indexes.  
Currently, MSCI calculates the Standard as well as the Large Cap and the Mid Cap 
Size Segment Indexes for both the MSCI China A and the MSCI China A RMB 
Indexes.  
Index Construction  
The MSCI China A Indexes were initially constructed by  deriv ing the constituents  
from the MSCI China All Shares Indexes by first selecting the China A shares 
securities and then filtering out the China A shares securities that are not accessible 
through the Stock Connect program .  
Index Maintenance  
Currently, the  constituents of the MSCI China A Inclusion  Index are derived from the 
MSCI China  Index at each Index Review by including only the China A shares 
component . 
Ongoing Event Related Changes  
The ongoing event -related changes to the MSCI China  Index es primarily follow the 
MSCI GIMI Methodology  and the MSCI Corporate Events Methodology.  
In order to reflect accessibility of securities trading on Stock Connect and keep the 
MSCI Index es replicable, methodologies were  enhanced in order to more accurately 
reflect the investment process of Stock Connect investors , especially for cases when 
Stock Connect is closed but the onshore Chinese domestic market is trading.   
Details of the treatment of Stock Connect China A shares can be found in Appendix 
VIII of the MSCI Corporate Events Methodology.  
 
 
65 The MSCI China A Onshore Indexes were previously known as the MSCI China A Indexes prior to March 1, 
2018. Please refer to Appendixes XII and XIV of the MSCI GIMI Methodology for more details on the MSCI China 
A Onshore Indexes.  
 Index Calculation  
The MSCI China A Indexes are calculated using China A Stock Connect listings based 
on the offshore RMB exchange rate (CNH) . 
The MSCI China A RMB Indexes are calculated using China A local  listings based on 
the o nshore RMB exchange rate (CN Y). 
 
  
 Appendix  XVII I: Transition  to the MSCI GIMI 
Methodology  
MSCI transitioned the current Standard Index, the Small Cap Index and all indexes  
derived from the Standard Index to the Global Investable Market Indexes  
methodology described in this book at the end of May 2008.  
All indexes  that are constructed with the Standard Indexes  as their basis, such as the 
GDP -weighted indexes , 10/40 Indexes  and other custom indexes , High Dividend Yield 
Indexes , the MSCI Global Value and Growth Indexes , etc., continued to be derived 
from the Standard Indexes  throughout the transition.   
The transition of the MSCI Standard and the MSCI Small Cap Indexes  to the MSCI 
Global Investable Market Indexes  methodology occurred in two phases.  The first 
phase occurred as of the close of November 30, 2007 and the second phase 
occurred as of the close of May 30, 2008.  
All indexes  derived from the MSCI Standard Indexes  followed the two phase 
transition except the MSCI Euro and Pan Euro Indexes  which were transitioned in one 
phase in November 2007.  
The transition was synchronized for all markets and composites.  
During the transition period, MSCI was producing the MSCI Provisional Standard and 
Provisional Small Cap Indexes  to assist investors in understanding the changes that 
would have occurred if the Global Investable Market Indexes  methodology had been 
immediately implemented in the current MSCI Standard and Small Cap Indexes . The 
Provisional Indexes  also provided increased flexibility to current investors who 
wished to transition to the Global Investable Market Indexes  methodology on their 
own schedule.  
The Provisional Standard and Provisional Small Cap Indexes  and the new Size -
Segment and Style Indexes  that were created based on this methodology were 
official MSCI indexes  and, as such, could be used for a variety of purposes, including 
as the basis for new investment mandates and for investment vehicles such as 
indexed  mutual funds, exchange traded funds and listed and over -the-counter 
derivative contracts.  
Provisional Indexes  
Provisional Indexes , together with the constituents, could be used by clients who 
wished to measure their performance against such indexes , ahead of MSCI's official 
implementation schedule.  The Provisional Indexes  and the new Size -Segment and 
Style Indexes  were maintained according to the index maintenance principles of the 
Global Investable Market Indexes  methodology.  
 Deriving the Size -Segment Indexes  at Initial Construction of the 
Provisional Indexes  
In the initial construction of the Provisional Size -Segment Indexes , the Segment 
Number of Companies in each size -segment and the Market Size -Segment Cutoffs 
was determined as described in section 2 of this methodology book. However, with a 
view to reducing transition turnover and ongoing turnover, the following additiona l 
rules were used at initial construction:  
* The Standard Indexes  targeted market coverage and size integrity as described 
in Sub-section 2.3.3: Determining the Segment Number of Companies and 
Associated Market Size -Segment Cutoffs  using  the 85% +- 5% Market Segment 
Coverage Range, and specifically aiming at reaching 85%, when possible. 
However, a Global Minimum Size Range of 0.5 times to 1.05 times the Global 
Minimum Size Reference, rather than 0.5 times to 1.15, was used for initial 
cons truction to limit turnover during the transition, as long as mar ket coverage 
did not exceed 90%.  
* The buffer zones used in maintaining the MSCI Global Investable Market Indexes  
at Semi -Annual Index Reviews were fully populated at initial construction with 
companies from the current Standard and Small Cap Indexes , in order to 
minimize turnover during the transition. If a company was represented in both 
the Standard and the Small Cap Index, it was evaluated using the eligibility 
requirements of the Standard Index only. For details on the application of buffer 
zones  in the assignment of companies to size -segments, please see Sub-section 
3.1.5.1:  Using Buffer Zones to Manage the Migration of Companies between 
Size -Segment Indexes .  
* At initial construction the Market Size -Segment Cutoffs and associated Segment 
Number of Companies of the Investable Market Segment were derived by 
including all companies equal to or larger than the Global Minimum Size 
Reference for this segment.  
Publication of Provisional Indexes  
In preparation for the transition, as of the close of May 3, 2007, the list of pro forma 
index constituents under the Global Investable Market Indexes  methodology for the 
Provisional MSCI Standard and Small Cap Indexes  in each market and for all 
Provisional Indexes  derived from the Standard indexes  were made available to 
clients. The Provisional Indexes  started with a base level of 1000 as of the close of 
May 31, 2007. All Global Investable Market Indexes , including the Provisional 
Standard and Provisional Small Cap Indexes , were calculated as of June 1, 2007 and 
published daily as of the close of June 5, 2007.  
 After the May 2008 Index Review , the Provisional Standard and Provisional Small Cap 
Indexes  were discontinued.  
Reflecting Constituent Changes in the Standard Indexes  at the 
Transition Points  
In the first phase of the transition in November 2007:  
* After the Provisional Standard Indexes were rebalanced as per the SAIR, they 
were compared to the relevant Standard Indexes.  
* All companies that were in the Provisional Standard Index but not in the 
corresponding Standard Index were added to the Standard Index at half of their 
free float -adjusted market capitalization, and all companies that were not in the 
Provisional Standard I ndex but in the corresponding Standard Index were 
retained in the Standard Index but at only half of their free float -adjusted market 
capitalization.  
In the second and final phase in May 2008:  
* The Provisional Standard Indexes were rebalanced.  
* Any and all differences between the rebalanced Provisional Standard Index and 
the Standard Index were fully implemented in the Standard Indexes.  
The transition of the Small Cap Indexes  was synchronized with the transition of the 
Standard Indexes , following the same timeline and approach.  
Index Inclusion Factors were used to manage the indexes  throughout the transition.  
The table below provides some examples of Index Inclusion Factors for companies 
through the phases of the transition. The index market capitalization of securities 
was determined as Index Inclusion Factor*FIF*Security Full Market Capitalization.  
 
 
 
For example, say companies A, B, C and D were current constituents 
of the Standard Index. Company A continued as a constituent of the 
Current Index 
Inclusion FlagProvisional 
Proforma Index 
Inclusion Flag          
(November 30,  
2007)Standard Proforma 
Inclusion Factor             
(November 30, 2007)Provisiona Proforma 
Index Inclusion Flag         
(May 30, 2008)Standard (final) 
Inclusion Factor              
(May 30, 2008)
1 1 1 1 1
1 0 0.5 0 0
1 0 0.5 1 1
1 1 1 0 0
0 1 0.5 1 1
0 1 0.5 0 0
0 0 0 1 1 Company GNew ConstituentsExisting Constituents
Company A
Company B
Company C
Company DPhase I Phase II
Company E
Company F
 Standard Index under the Global Investable Market Indexes 
methodology. It had an Index Inclusion Factor of 1 throughout the 
transition. Company B was not eligible for inclusion in the Standard 
Index under the Global Investable Market Indexes methodology. S o, in 
the first phase, it was marked for removal from the Standard Index 
and an Index Inclusion Factor of 0.5 was applied to it.  In the second 
phase the Index Inclusion Factor went to 0 indicating removal of the 
company from the Standard Index. Company C was also identified for 
removal from the Standard Index and had an Index Inclusion factor of 
0.5 in the first phase. But when evaluated at phase 2, it became 
eligible for inclusion and the Index Inclusion Factor was changed to 1 
for the second phase. Compa ny D was retained in the Standard Index 
when evaluated in the first phase and carried an Index Inclusion 
Factor of 1 for that phase. But in phase 2, it was no longer eligible for 
inclusion in the Standard Index and, hence its Index Inclusion Factor 
was cha nged to 0.0.  
 
Companies E, F, and G were new constituents that were eligible for 
inclusion under the Global Investable Market Indexes methodology. 
Company E remained eligible for inclusion to the Standard Index 
throughout the transition and had an Index Inclusion Factor  of 0.5 in 
the first phase and 1 in the second phase. Company F, was identified 
as an addition in the first phase, but at the second phase it was no 
longer eligible for inclusion. Its Index Inclusion Factor of 0.5 in the 
first phase was therefore changed t o 0 in the second phase. 
Company G was not eligible for inclusion in the first phase and 
carried an Index Inclusion Factor of 0. But in the second phase, it 
became eligible for inclusion and its Index Inclusion Factor was reset 
to 1, indicating full inclus ion in the Standard Index.  
Index Reviews and Treatment of On -Going Market Events 
during the Transition Period  
During the transition period, from May 4, 2007 through May 30, 2008, MSCI was 
maintaining its schedule of regular Index Review s for its Standard and Small Cap 
Index series. The Provisional Indexes  and Size -Segment Indexes  were maintained 
according to the index maintenance principles of the Global Investable Market 
Indexes  methodology.  
To minimize changes not related to the transition, all changes in the Standard 
Indexes  were coordinated with the Provisional Indexes . Only very significant changes 
in the equity markets and constituents were reflected during the Quarterly Index 
 Reviews for the existing Standard and Small Cap Indexes . All new additions of 
companies to the Provisional Standard Indexes  resulting from IPOs and the August 
2007 and February 2008 Index Review s were also included in the Standard Indexes  at 
their full free float -adjusted market capitalization.  
Ongoing Event Related Changes  
Effective from March 29, 2007 and throughout the transition, the ongoing 
maintenance of the Standard and Small Cap Indexes  was made with a view to 
minimize potential reverse turnover in the indexes . 
Effective May 4, 2007 all and only securities newly added to the Provisional Standard 
and Small Cap Indexes  as a result of ongoing maintenance of corporate events could 
be added to the Standard and to the Small Cap Indexes , respectively. Before May 31, 
2007 these were additions to the list of pro -forma constituents of the Provisional 
Standard and Provisional Small Cap Indexes . 
May 2007 Annual Full Country Index Review of the Standard Indexes  and 
Semi -Annual Index Review of the Small Cap Index  
The changes resulting from the May 2007 Annual Full Country Index Review of the 
existing Standard Indexes  were announced on May 3, 2007, earlier than its normal 
announcement schedule, to coincide with the availability of the pro -forma list of 
constituents of the MSCI Global Investable Market Indexes . Further, in order to 
minimize reverse turnover, the May 2007 Annual Full Country Index Review for the 
Standard Indexes  used the same Global Minimum Size Requirement and other 
investability requirements that wer e applied in the construction and maintenance of 
the Provisional Standard Indexes . Only securities that were constituents of the 
Provisional Standard Indexes  were added to the Standard Indexes  to bring the 
Industry Group representation closer to 85%, if necessary. If an Industry Group was 
over represented, only companies not included in the Provisional Standard Indexes  
were deleted.  
The current Small Cap Indexes  continued to target securities of companies in the full 
market capitalization range of USD 200 -1,500 million that defines the small cap 
universe under the current Small Cap Index methodology. The changes resulting 
from the May 2007 Index Review  of the current Small Cap Indexes  were made 
available on May 3, 2007, along with the  final pro forma list of constituents of the 
MSCI Global Investable Market Indexes . In order to minimize reverse turnover, the 
May 2007 Index Review  for the Small Cap Indexes  used the same Global Minimum 
Size Requirement and other investability screens that were applied in the 
construction and maintenance of the Provisional Small Cap Indexes . Only securities 
that were constituents of the Provisional Small Cap Indexes  were added to the Small 
Cap Indexes  to bring the Industry Group representation closer to 40%, if necessary. 
 Potential deletion of a security from the Small Cap Indexes  due to excessive industry 
group representation was considered only if it was not a constituent of the 
Provisional Small Cap Indexes .  
August 2007 Quarterly Index Review  
In August 2007, the first QIR for the Provisional Standard and Provisional Small Cap 
Indexes  was conducted under the principles of the Global Investable Market Indexes  
methodology. Newly eligible companies that were included in the Provisional 
Standard Indexes  as a result of the August 2007 Index Review  were also added to the 
existing Standard Indexes  as of the close of August 31, 2007. The migration of 
companies between the Provisional Standard and Provisional Small Cap Indexes  was 
also reflected in the St andard and Small Cap Indexes .  
November 2007 Semi -Annual Index Review  
The changes in the Standard and Small Cap Indexes  during the November 2007 
Index Review were determined in two steps:  
* Identification of the changes resulting from the regular Semi -Annual Index 
Review and;  
* Identification of the additional changes resulting from the first phase of the 
transition to the Global Investable Market Indexes Methodology.  
In the first step, MSCI performed the regular Semi -Annual Index Review of the 
Standard and Small Cap Indexes  under the principles of the Global Investable Market 
Indexes  Methodology, meaning that all changes in the Standard and Small Cap 
Indexes  were coordinated with the Semi -Annual Index Review of the Provisional 
Standard and Provisional Small Cap Indexes . Similar to the August 2007 Quarterly 
Index Review, the additions to and deletions from the Provisional Standard and 
Provisional Small Cap Indexes  result ing from the review were fully added to or 
deleted from the current Standard and Small Cap Indexes .  
In the second step, MSCI determined the difference in each constituent's free float -
adjusted market capitalization between the indexes  resulting from the first step 
above and the corresponding Post Semi -Annual Index Review Provisional Standard 
and Provisional Small Cap Indexes . Then, one -half of this difference was added to or 
deleted from the Standard and Small Cap Indexes . This was implemented by 
applying the Index Inclusion Factor (IIF) of 0.5 to all additions and deletions resulting 
from the transition.  
February 2008 Quarterly Index Review  
In February 2008, the second QIR for the Provisional Standard and Provisional Small 
Cap Indexes  was conducted under the principles of the Global Investable Market 
 Indexes  methodology. Newly eligible companies that were included in the Provisional 
Standard Index as a result of the February 2008  Index Review were also added to the 
Standard Index as of the close of February 29, 2008. The migrations of companies 
between the Provisional Standard and Provisional Small Cap Indexes  were also 
reflected in the Standard and Small Cap Indexes . 
May 2008 Semi -Annual Index Review  
In May 2008, the second SAIR for the Provisional Standard and Provisional Small Cap 
Indexes  was conducted under the principles of the Global Investable Market Indexes  
methodology. The addition or deletion of the remaining difference of the free float -
adjusted market capitalization for each constituent was implemented in the Standard 
and Small Cap Indexes  as of the close of May 30, 2008. After this, the Provisional 
Indexes  were discontinued as of the close of June 30, 2008.  
Transitioning Other Indexes   
Global Value and Growth Indexes  
The Global Value and Growth Indexes  followed the timeline and implementation of 
the Standard Indexes .  
Starting with the first phase of the transition, the style classification of the 
Provisional MSCI Global Value and Growth Indexes  prevailed over that of the current 
Global Value and Growth Indexes . Therefore, at the first phase of the transition, the 
constituents of the existing MSCI Global Value and Growth Indexes  acquired style 
inclusion factors derived from the Global Investable Market Indexes . In those rare 
cases where an existing constituent of the current Global Value and Growth Indexes  
were not included in the Global Investable Market Indexes , those constituents 
retained their current style inclusion factors.  
Euro and Pan -Euro Indexes  
The MSCI Euro and MSCI Pan -Euro Indexes  are subsets of the Standard MSCI EMU 
and MSCI Europe Indexes , respectively, and aimed to capture 90% of the market 
capitalization of the broader benchmarks.  
The MSCI Euro Pan -Euro methodology evolved to the methodology for the Large Cap 
Index under the Global Investable Market Indexes  methodology. Consequently,  
* The enhanced MSCI Pan Euro Index became identical to the MSCI Europe Large 
Cap Index under the MSCI Global Investable Market Indexes methodology.  
* The enhanced MSCI Euro Index became identical to the MSCI EMU Large Cap 
Index under the MSCI Global Investable Market Indexes methodology.  
 The transition of the MSCI Euro and MSCI Pan -Euro Indexes  to the Global Investable 
Market Indexes  methodology took place in a single phase, as of the close of 
business on November 30, 2007.   
Indexes  Based on the Standard Indexes  
Indexes  constructed with the Standard Indexes  as their basis, such as the High 
Dividend Yield Indexes , GDP -weighted indexes , 10/40 Indexes  and other custom 
indexes , continued to be derived from the Standard Indexes  throughout the 
transition.  
GCC Countries Indexes  
MSCI transitioned the current MSCI GCC Countries Indexes  to the enhanced MSCI 
GCC Countries Indexes  Methodology.  
The transition of the MSCI GCC Countries Indexes  to the enhanced MSCI GCC 
Countries Indexes  Methodology occurred in one single phase. The transition was 
implemented as of the close of May 30, 2008.  
In order to add transparency to the transition process and to assist clients in 
planning and implementing their individual transition strategies, MSCI provided 
Provisional Indexes  for the MSCI GCC Countries Indexes  constructed and maintained 
according to the enhanced MSCI GCC Countries Indexes  Methodology.  
Summary Transition Timeline  
The transition time line for the Standard Index (and Small Cap Index) is as shown 
below.  
Date  Provisional/New  Standard & Small Cap  
March 28, 2007  Final MSCI Global Investable 
Market Indexes  methodology was 
announced.  No impact.  
May Annual 
Index Review  Initial construction based on data 
used in Standard and Small Cap 
Index Review, including population 
of the buffers.  Regular Annual Index Review of the Current 
Standard Index., taking into account new 
minimum size requirements.  
Regular SAIR of the Current Small Cap 
Index.  
Corporate events, IPOs and other new 
company additions treated in accordance 
with the current index methodology.  
 May 3, 2007  List of index constituents for 
Provisional Standard and 
Provisional Small Cap Indexes , 
under the Global Investable 
Market Indexes  methodology for 
each of the MSCI Provisional 
Standard and Provisional Small 
Cap Indexes , was made available.  Results of May Annual Index Review were 
announced.  
May 31, 2007  Provisional Indexes  start with a 
base level of 1000 as of the close 
of May 31, 2007 and calculation 
began  Annual Index Review changes became 
effective.  
June 5, 2007  Start of daily publication of the 
Provisional Standard and 
Provisional Small Cap Indexes . 
New Large Cap, Mid Cap, and 
Investable Market Indexes  also 
published.  No impact.  
August 2007  
 QIR of the Provisional and new 
indexes  using buffers zones, 
updates of NOS, FIFs, IPO and 
newly eligible companies 
inclusions, etc.  QIR of the current Standard and Small Cap 
Indexes  reflecting changes in NOS, FIF, etc.  
Addition of IPOs and newly eligible 
companies to the Provisional Standard 
Index Series were reflected in the Standard 
Index at their full weight.  
Migrations between the Provisional 
Standard and Provisional Small Cap Indexes  
were also reflected in the Standard and 
Small Cap Indexes . 
November 
2007  
 SAIR for Provisional and Size -
Segment Indexes.  First phase of the transition included in QIR 
for Standard Indexes and SAIR for Small 
Cap Indexes.  
November 30, 
2007  Rebalanced Provisional Indexes 
implemented.  Partially transitioned Standard and Small 
Cap Indexes implemented.  
February 2008  QIR of Provisional and new Size -
Segment Indexes using buffers, 
updates of NOS, IPO inclusions, 
etc. QIR of the current Standard and Small Cap 
Indexes reflecting changes in NOS, FIF etc.  
Addition of IPOs and newly eligible 
companies to the Provisional Standard 
 Index Series were reflected in the Standard 
Index at their full weight.  
Migrations between the Provisional 
Standard and Provisional Small Cap Indexes 
were also reflected in the Standard and 
Small Cap Indexes.  
May 2008 SAIR 
and Annual 
Review  SAIR for Provisional and Size -
Segment Indexes.  Second and final phase of the transition 
included in May Annual Index Review for 
Standard Indexes and SAIR for Small Cap 
Indexes.  
May 30, 2008   Fully transitioned Standard and Small Cap 
Indexes implemented.  
After June 1, 
2008  Provisional Indexes discontinued.  All MSCI global equity indexes operate 
under Global Investable Market Indexes 
methodology.  
 Appendix  XIX: Transition  to a Quarterly 
Comprehensive Index Review  
Prior to the February 2023 Index Review, the MSCI Global Investable Market Indexes 
were reviewed on a quarterly basis which involved : 
- Semi -Annual Index Reviews (SAIR s) in May and November and 
- Quarterly Index Reviews (QIRs) in February and August  
The objective of the SAIRs was to systematically reassess the various dimensions of 
the Equity Universe for all markets , involv ing a comprehensive review of the Size -
Segment Indexes.  
QIRs aimed to capture significant market driven changes that were not captured in 
the index at the time of their actual occurrence but are significant enough to be 
reflected before the next SAIR.  
Following positive feedback from market participants  in a market consultation, MSCI 
transitioned to a Quarterly Comprehensive Index Review (QCIR) schedule starting 
from the February 2023 Index Review. In a QCIR, MSCI employs the  index 
maintenance methodology of an SAIR  across each of the quarterly Index Reviews.   
Foreign Inclusion Factors  and N umber of Shares  were fully reviewed up to the Price 
Cutoff Date of each QCIR starting from the May 2023 Index Review.  
Treatment of MSCI Derived Indexes with Different Index 
Review Schedules compared to Parent Indexes  
Indexes constructed from a parent index that follows GIMI methodology but apply an 
alternative weighting methodology and/or additional screening methodology 
(Derived Indexes), such as MSCI Factor, ESG or Capped Indexes, may have Index 
Review schedules whic h do not always coincide with the Index Review schedule of 
their respective parent index.    
For Derived Indexes whose Index Review schedule is less frequent compared to their 
parent, for example less frequent than quarterly (e.g. semi -annual, annual) compared 
to the MSCI Global Investable Market Indexes which are reviewed on a quarterly 
basis, ch anges resulting from the parent index, such as deletions, additions, as well 
as Number of Shares and Foreign Inclusion Factor changes, will be reflected as per 
the intra -rebalance treatment specified in their respective methodologies.   
 
 
 
 Appendix XX: Changes to the MSCI Frontier Markets 
Indexes Methodology  
In August 2022, a consultation was launched with proposals to enhance the MSCI 
Frontier Markets Indexes Methodology w ith the aim of address ing the following : 
* A limited number of eligible securities and much smaller investment 
opportunity set caused by higher size cutoffs linked to Developed Markets 
(DM)  
* Significantly higher country concentration, as a few heavily -weighted markets 
at the top of the index exist along with a longer list of smaller markets at the 
bottom  
* Frequent changes in index composition, often driven by market 
reclassifications   
Following feedback from market participants , the changes  below  were implemented  
at the August 2023 Index Review : 
* Independent size cutoffs for Frontier Markets are no longer linked to 
Developed Markets,  
* For each individual Frontier Market, a reduction in the minimum number of 
companies meeting Standard Index requirements for Size and Liquidity from 
two companies to one, and  
* Regional consolidation of individual markets for the purpose of index 
construction and maintenance where appropriate, starting with the Baltic 
States, i.e., Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia : 
o MSCI consider s Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia as a single market for 
the purpose of index construction and maintenance under the MSCI 
Global Investable Market Indexes Methodology to derive the 
constituents of the MSCI Baltic States Indexes. The MSCI Estonia, 
MSCI Lithuania and MSCI Latvia Indexes are then derived from the 
constituents of the MSCI Baltic States Indexes ,   
o As part of the August 2023 Index  Review , the constituents of the 
MSCI Estonia and MSCI Lithuania Indexes were considered as 
existing constituents of the MSCI Baltic States Index for rebalancing 
purpose , 
o The MSCI Baltic States Indexes is  maintained as a Very Low Liquidity 
market with a minimum Annualized Traded Value Ratio (ATVR) 
requirement of 2.5%.  
 Changes to the Methodology Book  
The following sections have been modified since November 2012:  
3.2.4.  Quarterly Index Review of Changes in FIFs  
* Update of the footnote on page 45  
3.3.3.3  Early Inclusion of Non -Index Constituents  
* Update of the last paragraph on page 52  
3.3.4.1  IPOs and Other Early Inclusions  
* Update on page 54  
3.3.5 Corporate Events Affecting the Index Review  
* Update on page 55  
Appendix I: Eligible Classes of Securities (Developed Markets)  
* Update on page 73  
Appendix III: Country Classification of Securities  
* Update of the last paragraph on page 80  
* Update on Russia on page 80  
* Update on China on page 80  
 
The following sections have been modified since February 2013:  
2.2.5  Minimum Length of Trading Requirements  
* Update last paragraph of section  
3.1.6.2  Existing Constituents  
* Update on page 39 and the footnote on page 40  
3.2.4  Quarterly index Review of Changes in FIFs  
* New paragraph end of section  
3.2.5  Quarterly Index Review of Changes in the Number of Shares (NOS)  
* New paragraph end of section  
3.3.3.2 Changes in Size or Style Segment Classification as a Result of a Large 
Corporate Event  
* Update on page 51  
 3.3.3.3 Early Inclusion of Non -Index Constituents  
* Updates on page 52  
3.3.4.1 IPOs and Other Early Inclusions  
* Updates on page 55  
5.1.1  Updating MSCI Frontier Markets Index Coverage  
* New second paragraph  
5.1.2  Standalone Country Indexes  
* New section  
5.2.2  Categorization of Frontier Markets into very low, low or average liquidity 
markets  
* Updates on page 67  
Appendix I: Eligible Markets (Emerging Markets & Frontier Markets)  
* Updates on page 72 and 75  
* Updates the footnote on page 71, 72 and 75  
Appendix III: MSCI Ineligible Securities  
* Updates on page 84  
Appendix IV: Free Float Definition and Estimation Guidelines  
* Updates on page 92  
 
The following sections have been modified since May 2013:  
3.1.9  Date of Data Used for Semi -Annual Index Review  
* Updates on page 39  
3.2.6  Date of Data Used for Quarterly Index Review  
* Updates on page 47  
Appendix III: MSCI Ineligible Securities  
* Updates on page 84  
 
The following sections have been modified since August 2013:  
2.3.5.2  Minimum Liquidity Requirement for the Standard Indexes  
* Section removed  
 * Updates on page 24  
3.1.6  Assessing Conformity with Final Size -Segment Investability Requirements  
* Updates on page 37  
3.1.6.2  For Existing Constituents  
* Updates on page 39  
* Updates of the Footnote on page 39  
3.2.1.4  Assessing Conformity with Final Size -Segment Investability Requirements  
* Part of the section updated and moved under new section 3.2.3  
* One paragraph added  
* Updates of the Footnote on page 43  
3.2.4 Quarterly Index Reviews of Changes in FIFs  
* Update in footnote  
3.2.4 Quarterly Index Reviews of Changes in Number of Shares (NOS)  
* Updates  
3.3.3.2 Changes in Size or Style Segment Classification as a Result of a Large 
Corporate Event  
* Update for small cap  
3.3.3.3 Early Inclusions of Non -Index Constituents  
* Update in second paragraph  
3.3.4.1 IPOs and Other Early Inclusion  
* Updates  
 
The following sections have been modified since November 2013:  
3.1.6.2 For Existing Constituents  
* Updates in second to the last paragraph  
* Added footnote  
3.2.1.4 Assessing Conformity with Final Size -Segment Investability Requirements  
* Updates in third to the last paragraph  
* Added footnote  
Appendix IX: Minimum Market -Relative Liquidity Requirements for the Standard Index  
 * Section deleted  
 
The following sections have been modified since February 2014:  
2.1.1 Identifying Eligible Equity Securities  
* Deleted "Other than Business Development Companies in the U.S."  
3.1.5 Assigning Companies to Appropriate Size -Segments  
* Updates in first and second bullet points - added "or equal to"  
3.2.1.3 Assigning Companies to Appropriate Size -Segments  
* Update in first bullet point - added "or equal to"  
5.2.2. Categorization of Frontier Markets into very low, low or average liquidity 
markets  
* Updates in the first and fourth paragraph  
Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* Added sub -section on Ineligible Alert Boards  
Appendix IX: Frontier Markets Country Classification  
* Added the West African Economic and Monetary Union ( WAEMU) as a 
Standalone Index  
 
The following sections have been modified since May 2014:  
2.1.1 Identifying Eligible Equity Securities  
* Updates in the first paragraph and footnotes  
2.4 Index Continuity Rules  
* Updates in this section  
* Section 3 Introduction  
* Clarification paragraph added  
3.1.9 Data used for Semi -Annual Index Reviews  
* Updates in this section  
3.2.2 Quarterly Index Review of Addition of Companies Currently not Constituents of 
the Investable Market Indexes  
* Updates in this section  
3.2.6 Data used for Quarterly Index Reviews  
 * Updates in this section  
3.3.3.1 Changes in FIF, Number of Shares or Industry Classification for Existing 
Constituents  
* Updates in this section  
4.2.2 Quarterly Index Reviews of February and August  
* Updates in this section  
5.2.4 Index Continuity Rules  
* Clarification paragraph added  
Appendix III: Country Specific Cases  
* Updates in this section  
Appendix V: Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS)  
* Updates in this section  
Appendix X: MSCI Provisional Saudi Arabia Indexes  
* New section  
 
The following sections have been modified since August 2014:  
2.1.1 Identifying Eligible Equity Securities  
* Clarification on eligibility of Limited Partnerships  
3.1.4.1 Determining Initial Segment Number of Companies  
* Clarification on counting the Initial Segment Number of Companies for the IMI  
Section 3.1.9: Date of Data Used for Semi -Annual Index Review  
* Added footnote  
Section 3.2.6: Date of Data Used for Quarterly Index Review  
* Added footnote  
3.3.3.1 Changes in FIF, Number of Shares or Industry Classification for Existing 
Constituents  
* Clarification on treatment of securities with decreased FOL or foreign room 
outside of Index Review s 
Appendix I: Eligible Classes of Securities (Developed Markets)  
* Updated table  
 Appendix I: Eligible Classes of Securities (Emerging Markets)  
* Updated table  
Appendix III: Country Specific Cases  
* Updates in this section  
* Appendix I: Updated list of countries with REITs  
 
The following sections have been modified since November 2014:  
Section 3.3.3.4: Early Deletions of Existing Constituents  
* Updated deletion price and examples of early deletion  
Appendix I: Eligible Classes of Securities (Emerging Markets)  
* Updated deletion price for Ineligible Alert Boards  
Appendix XI: MSCI Provisional Indexes for Coverage Enhancements  
* New section  
Appendix XIII: Transition of MSCI China A Index  
* Deleted "Treatment of Suspensions"  
Appendix XV: MSCI India Domestic Index  
* New section  
Appendix XVI: Enhancements to the Coverage of the MSCI Global Investable Market 
Indexes  
* New section  
 
The following sections have been modified since February 2015:  
Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* REITs  
Appendix III: MSCI Ineligible Securities  
Appendix X: MSCI Provisional Saudi Arabia Indexes  
Appendix XI: MSCI Provisional Indexes for Coverage Enhancements  
Appendix XIV: MSCI DR Indexes  
* Updated for fees on dividends  
 Appendix XVI: Enhancements to the Coverage of the MSCI Global Investable Market 
Indexes  
 
The following section has been modified since May 2015:  
Appendix X: MSCI Saudi Arabia Indexes  
 
The following sections have been modified since July 2015:  
Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Emerging Markets)"  
Appendix XVI: Enhancements to the Coverage of the MSCI Global Investable Market 
Indexes  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Emerging Markets)"  
 
The following sections have been modified since August 2015:  
Section 3.2.4: Quarterly Index Reviews Changes in FIFs  
* Added clarification in footnote  
Appendix XVI: Enhancements to the Coverage of the MSCI Global Investable Market 
Indexes  
* Updated the section on China under the revised Appendix III: Country 
Classification of Securities  
 
The following section ha s been modified since October 2015:  
Appendix III: Country Classification of Securities  
* Added the section on Australia under Country Specific Case  
 
The following sections have been modified since November 2015:  
Section 2.2: Determining the Market Investable Equity Universes  
* Updates in this section  
Section 2.2.1: Identifying Eligible Listings  
* New section  
Section 2.2.2: Applying Investability Screens  
 * New section (content previously included in section 2.2)  
Section 2.2.5: DM and EM Minimum Liquidity Requirements  
* Updates in this section on priority rules for selection of listings  
* Added footnotes for further clarifications on liquidity calculation  
Section 3.1.2: Updating the Market Investable Equity Universes  
* Updates in this section  
Section 3.1.2.1: Eligibility of Foreign Listings  
* New section  
Section 3.1.2.4: Minimum Liquidity Requirement for Existing Constituents  
* Updates in this section on priority rules for selection of listings  
Section 3.2.3: Quarterly Index Review of Deletion of Companies Currently 
Constituents of the Investable Market Indexes  
* Updates in this section on priority rules for selection of listings  
Section 3.2.5: Quarterly Index Review of Changes in Number of Shares (NOS)  
* Updates in this section  
* Added footnote  
Section 5.1.2: Standalone Market Indexes  
* Section deleted  
Section 6: MSCI Standalone Market Indexes  
* New section  
Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* Updated all the tables to reflect eligibility of foreign listings  
* Updated list of countries with REITs to include Pakistan  
Appendix III: Country Classification of Securities  
* Updated the sections "General Framework" and "Other Cases"  
* Updated the treatment of China under the section "Country Specific Cases"  
* Added the treatment of Greece under the section "Country Specific Cases"  
* Deleted the sections "Review and Maintenance" and "Country of Coverage of 
Companies Not Eligible for Inclusion in the MSCI Global Investable Market 
Indexes"  
 Appendix IV: Foreign Listing Materiality Requirement  
* New appendix  
Appendix V: Free Float Definition and Estimation Guidelines  
* Updates in the table on the Classification of Shareholder Types  
Appendix X: Frontier Markets Country Classification  
* Updates in the format of the table  
Appendix XVI: Enhancements to the Coverage of the MSCI Global Investable Market 
Indexes  
* Appendix deleted  
 
The following sections have been modified since February 2016:  
Section 3.1.9: Date of data used for Semi -Annual Index Review  
* Updates in this section on ongoing maintenance of securities' share classes, 
share types and alternate listing  
Appendix V: Free Float Definition and Estimation Guidelines  
* Added sub -section on Treatment of High Shareholding Concentration  
 
The following  sections  have been modified since April 2016:  
Section 3.1.9: Date of Data Used for Semi -Annual Index Review  
* Updated the treatment of cases monitored and updated right up to the Price 
Cutoff Date  
Section 3.2.4: Quarterly Index Review of Changes in FIFs  
* Added the treatment of IPO over -allotment options  
Section 3.2.5: Quarterly Index Review of Changes in Number of Shares (NOS)  
* Added the treatment of over -allotment options  
Section 3.2.6: Date of Data Used for Quarterly Index Review  
* Updated the treatment of cases monitored and updated right up to the Price 
Cutoff Date  
 
The following sections have been modified since May 2016:  
Section 2.2.3: Equity Universe Minimum Size Requirement  
 * Added a footnote  
Section 2.2.5: DM and EM Minimum Liquidity Requirement  
* Updates in this section on calculation of Frequency of Trading  
Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* Updated the table "Eligible Classes of Securities for Stock Exchanges in 
Developed Markets"  
Appendix III: Country Classification of Securities  
* Added the treatment of countries subject to economic sanctions under the 
section "Country Specific Cases"  
Appendix VIII: Policy Regarding Trading Suspensions and Market Closures during 
Index Review  
* Added clarification for "Index Review changes"  
 
The following section ha s been modified since June 2016:  
Appendix XII: MSCI Provisional Pakistan Indexes and MSCI Pakistan Indexes  
* New section  
 
The following sections have been modified since August 2016:  
Section 2.4: Index Continuity Rules  
* Updates in this section  
Section 2.6: Classifying Securities under the Global Industry Classification Standard  
* Updated to reflect revised GICS structure effective September 1, 2016  
Section 5.2.4: Index Continuity Rules  
* Updates in this section  
Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* Updated the table "Eligible Classes Of Securities For Stock Exchanges In 
Developed Markets"  
Appendix VI: Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS)  
* Updated to reflect revised GICS structure effective September 1, 2016  
Appendix XIII: MSCI Provisional Indexes for Coverage Enhancements  
 * Appendix deleted  
 
The following sections have been modified since October 2016:  
Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Developed Markets)"  
Section 2.2.5: DM and EM Minimum Liquidity Requirements  
* Added footnote on priority rule for local listings  
Section 3.1.2.4: Minimum Liquidity Requirement for Existing Constituents  
* Added footnote on priority rule for local listings  
Section 3.2.3: Quarterly Index Review of Deletion of Companies Currently 
Constituents of the Investable Market Indexes  
* Added footnote on priority rule for local listings  
 
The following sections have been modified since November 2016:  
Section 3.1.4.2: Changes in the Segment Number of Companies  
* Added footnotes  
Section 3.1.9: Date of Data Used for Semi -Annual Index Review  
* Updates in this section  
Section 3.2.4: Quarterly Index Review of Changes in FIFs  
* Updates in this section  
Section 3.2.5: Quarterly Index Review of Changes in Number of Shares (NOS)  
* Updates in this section  
Section 3.2.6: Date of Data Used for Quarterly Index Review  
* Updates in this section  
Section 3.3.5: Corporate Events Affecting the Index Review  
* Clarification paragraph added (first paragraph)  
Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Developed Markets)"  
* Updated the tables for Frontier Markets and Standalone Markets  
 * Updated the list of ineligible alert boards  
Appendix VIII: Policy Regarding Trading Suspensions and Market Closures during 
Index Review  
* Added clarification for "Index Review changes"  
Appendix XI: MSCI Saudi Arabia Indexes  
* Updated following a change in foreign ownership regulation  
Appendix XVI: MSCI Domestic Indexes  
* Updated to include other domestic countries  
Appendix XVII: MSCI China All Shares Indexes and MSCI China A International 
Indexes  
* Appendix added  
 
The following sections have been modified since February 2017:  
Section 3.1.7: Semi -Annual Index Review of Changes in FIFs  
* Added clarification on threshold used for implementation of FIF changes  
Appendix VIII: Policy Regarding Trading Suspensions and Market Closures during 
Index Review  
* Updates in this section  
 
The following sections have been modified since April 2017:  
Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* Updated list of countries with REITs to include Saudi Arabia  
Appendix V: Free Float Definition and Estimation Guidelines  
* Added clarification on buffer used for Semi -Annual Review of Non -Voting 
Depository Receipts in Thailand  
 
The following sections have been modified since May 2017:  
Section 3.2.5: Quarterly Index Review of Changes in Number of Shares (NOS)  
* Update in this section  
* Section 5.1.1: Updating MSCI Frontier Markets Coverage  
 * Update in this section  
* Section 6.4.1: Inclusion of Newly Eligible Markets  
* Update in this section  
Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Developed Markets)"  
* Updated the tables for Emerging Markets, Frontier Markets and Standalone 
Markets  
* Updated the list of ineligible alert boards  
 
The following section ha s been modified since June 2017:  
Appendix X VIII: MSCI China A International Large Cap Provisional  Index  
* Appendix added  
 
The following sections have been modified since August 2017:  
Section 3.3.3.1: Changes in FIF, Number of Shares or Industry Classification for 
Existing Constituents  
* Clarification of the industry classification review as part of a corporate event  
Section 3.3.3.2: Changes in Size Segment, Style Segment or Industry Classification 
as a Result of a Large Corporate Event  
* Clarification of the industry classification review as part of a corporate event  
Section 3.3.3.3: Early Inclusions of Non -Index Constituents  
* Clarification of the industry classification review as part of a corporate event  
Section 5.2.2: Categorization of Frontier Markets into Very Low, Low or Average 
Liquidity Markets  
* Clarification on priority rules for selection of listings  
Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* Updated the table "Eligible Classes Of Securities For Stock Exchanges In 
Emerging Markets"  
* Updated the list of ineligible alert boards  
* Clarification on the treatment of additions of securities that are on ineligible alert 
boards  
 The following section ha s been modified since September 2017:  
Section 2.7: Constructing and Calculating the Individual MSCI Global Investable 
Markets Indexes  
* Added section to clarify the creation and maintenance of the MSCI GIMI 
Composite Indexes  
 
The following sections have been modified since October 2017:  
Section 2.2.5: DM and EM Minimum Liquidity Requirement  
* Updated the requirement for Chinese securities  
Section 3.2.1.4: Minimum Liquidity Requirement for Existing Constituents  
* Updated the requirement for Chinese securities  
Appendix XVIII: Provisional Indexes to Assist the Upcoming Partial Inclusion of China 
A Shares in Emerging Markets  
* Update in this section following consultation conclusion  
Appendix X IX: MSCI China A Inclusion Indexes  
* Appendix added  
 
The following sections have been modified since November 2017:  
Section 2.2.5 DM and EM Minimum Liquidity Requirement  
* Clarification on the calculations of ATVR and Frequency of Trading  
Section 3.1.2: Updating the Market Investable Equity Universes  
* Clarification on the application of investability screens  
Section 3.1.6.2: Final Size -Segment Investability Requirements for Existing 
Constituents  
* Clarification on treatment of Standard Index constituents failing the additional 
investability requirements  
Section 3.3.4.1: IPOs and Other Early Inclusions  
* Clarification of early inclusions following large offerings  
Section 3.4.3.1: Client Announcements  
* New treatment for "acknowledged" announcement status  
Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
 * Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Developed Markets)"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Emerging Markets)"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Frontier Markets)"  
* Updated the list of ineligible alert boards  
* Clarification on the treatment of securities getting into the ineligible alert boards  
 
The following sections have been modified since February 2018:  
Section 5.2.6: IPOs and Other Early Inclusions  
* Update in this section  
Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Developed Markets)"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Emerging Markets)"  
Appendix XVIII: Provisional Indexes to Assist the Upcoming Partial Inclusion of China 
A Shares in Emerging Markets  
* Update in this section  
 
The following sections have been modified since March 2018:  
Section 3.1.7: Semi -Annual Index Review of Changes in Foreign Inclusion Factors 
(FIFs)  
* Change of implementation treatment for certain events at QIRs  
Section 3.2.4: Quarterly Index Review of Changes in FIFs  
* Change of implementation treatment for block sales, secondary offerings and 
acquisition for shares of unlisted assets  
Section 3.2.5: Quarterly Index Review of Changes in Number of Shares (NOS)  
* Change of implementation thresholds at the time of the event  
Section 3.3.3.1: Changes in FIF, Number of Shares or Industry Classification for 
Existing Constituents  
* Change of implementation thresholds at the time of the event  
Appendix V: Free Float Definition and Estimation Guidelines  
* Updates in this section  
 Appendix XI: MSCI DR Indexes  
* Previously Appendix XIV  
Appendix XII: MSCI Domestic Indexes  
* Previously Appendix XV  
* Added details on MSCI China A Onshore Index, previously Appendix XIII  
Appendix XIII: MSCI Saudi Arabia Index  
* Previously Appendix XI  
Appendix XIV: MSCI China Indexes  
* New section  
Appendix XV: Inclusion of China A Shares in the MSCI China Indexes  
* new section  
Appendix XVI: MSCI China A Inclusion Indexes  
* Previously Appendix XIX  
Appendix XVII: Transition to the MSCI GIMI Methodology  
* Previously Appendix XII  
 
The following sections have been modified since May 2018:  
Section 3.3.4.1: IPOs and Other Early Inclusions  
* Clarification of the treatment of over -allotment  
Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Developed Markets)"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Emerging Markets)"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Standalone Markets)"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Classes Of Securities For Stock Exchanges In 
Developed Markets"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Classes Of Securities For Stock Exchanges In 
Standalone Markets"  
Appendix V: Free Float Definitions and Estimation Guidelines  
* Clarified threshold for updating FOL and FIF related to NVDRs during SAIRs  
Appendix X: Frontier Markets Country Classification  
 * Updated the table "Eligible Classes Of Securities For Stock Exchanges In 
Standalone Markets"  
 
The following section ha s been modified since June 2018:  
Appendix XIII: Saudi Arabia Indexes  
* Updates in this section  
 
The following sections have been modified since July 2018:  
Section 2.2.5: DM and EM Minimum Liquidity Requirements  
* Clarifications made to footnote  
Appendix XV: Inclusion of China A Shares in the MSCI China Indexes  
* Clarified migrations outside of Index Review s 
Appendix XVII: MSCI China A Indexes  
* Added new section, previously from MSCI China All Shares Indexes  
Appendix XVIII: Provisional GICS Indexes  
* New Appendix  
Appendix XIX: Transition to the MSCI GIMI Methodology  
* Previously Appendix XVII  
 
The following sections have been modified since August 2018:  
APPENDIX I: EQUITY MARKETS AND UNIVERSE  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Developed Markets)"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Emerging Markets)"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Standalone Markets)"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Classes of Securities for Stock Exchanges in 
Standalone Markets"  
Section 2.2.8  Minimum Foreign Room Requirement  
* Updated Footnote  
Section 3.1.6.2  For Existing Constituents  
* Updated Footnote   
 Section 3.1.7 Semi -Annual Index Review of Changes In Foreign Inclusion Factors 
(FIFs)  
* Updated Footnote   
Section 3.2.1.4 Assessing Conformity with Final Size -Segment Investability 
Requirements  
* Updated Footnote   
Section 3.2.2 Quarterly Index Review of Addition of Companies Currently Not 
Constituents of the Investable Market Indexes  
* Updated Footnote   
Appendix XVIII: Provisional GICS Indexes  
* Updated the dates in the example  
 
The following sections have been modified since September 2018:  
Appendix XIII: MSCI Saudi Arabia Indexes  
* Updates in this section  
Appendix XIX: MSCI Provisional Argentina Indexes  
* New Appendix  
 
The following sections have been modified since November 2018:  
APPENDIX I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Developed Markets)"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Standalone Markets)"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Classes of Securities for Stock Exchanges in 
Emerging Markets"  
* Updated the list of Ineligible Alert Boards  
Appendix II: Market Classification Framework  
* Modified   Market Accessibility Review criteria to reflect the change related to 
"Availability of Investment Instruments"  
Appendix III: Country Classification of Securities  
* Updates in Country Specific Cases for China  
* Updated Footnote  
 Appendix VI: Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS)  
* Updates in this section  
Appendix XV: Inclusion of China A Shares in the MSCI China Indexes  
* Deleted "Provisional China Indexes  
 
The following sections have been modified since December 2018:  
Section 2.1.1: Identifying Eligible Equity Securities  
* Clarification on the treatment of stapled securities  
Section 2.2.5 DM and EM Minimum Liquidity Requirement  
* Clarification on the calculations of ATVR and Frequency of Trading  
Section 3.1.9 Date of Data Used for Semi -Annual Index Review  
* Clarification on the treatment of unlisted securities  
Section 3.2.5: Quarterly Index Review of Changes in Number of Shares (NOS)  
* Clarification on implementation thresholds at the time of the event  
Section 3.2.6 Date of Data Used for Quarterly Index Review  
* Clarification on the treatment of unlisted securities  
Section 3.3.3.1: Changes in FIF, Number of Shares or Industry Classification for 
Existing Constituents  
* Clarification on implementation thresholds at the time of the event  
APPENDIX I: EQUITY MARKETS AND UNIVERSE  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Emerging Markets)"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Frontier Markets)"  
* Updated the list of Ineligible Alert Boards  
APPENDIX III: Country Classification of Securities  
* Clarification on the treatment of reverse mergers  
Appendix XVIII: MSCI Provisional GICS Indexes  
* Appendix removed  
 
The following sections ha ve been modified since February 2019:  
 Section 3.1.6.2 Assessing Conformity with Final Size -Segment Investability 
Requirements for Existing Constituents  
* Updated treatment for securities with low Foreign Room with liquid Depositary 
Receipts (DRs)  
Section 3.2.1.4 Assessing Conformity with Final Size -Segment Investability 
Requirements  
* Updated treatment for securities with low Foreign Room with liquid Depositary 
Receipts (DRs)  
Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* Updated list of REITs  
Appendix V: Free Float Definition and Estimation Guidelines  
* Updated the Treatment of Non -Voting Depositary Receipts in Thailand  
Appendix XIII MSCI Saudi Arabia Indexes  
* Updated treatment for the MSCI Saudi Arabia Indexes in the context of the 
reclassification to Emerging Markets  
Appendix XV Inclusion of China A Shares in the MSCI China Indexes  
* Updated treatment for the MSCI China Indexes in the context of the weight 
increase of China A shares  
Appendix XVIII MSCI Provisional Argentina Indexes and MSCI Argentina Indexes  
* Updated treatment for the MSCI Argentina Indexes in the context of the 
reclassification to Emerging Markets  
 
The following sections ha ve been modified since April 2019:  
Section 2.2.5 DM and EM Minimum Liquidity Requirement  
* Added clarification on adjustments on ATVR and FOT related to suspensions  
Section 3.3.3.4 Early Deletions of Existing Constituents   
* Clarification on the treatment of small cap constituents with large full market 
capitalization but low float -adjusted market capitalization  
Section 3.3.5 Corporate Events Affecting the Index Review   
* Clarification on the treatment of corporate events affecting pro forma index 
constituents effective between the price cutoff date and the Index Review 
effective date  
 Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Developed Markets)  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Emerging Markets)  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Frontier Markets)  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Standalone Markets)  
* Updated the table "Eligible Classes of Securities for stock exchanges in Emerging 
Markets  
* Updated the table "Eligible Classes of Securities for stock exchanges in Frontier 
Markets  
* Updated the table "Eligible Classes of Securities for stock exchanges in 
Standalone Markets  
* Added clarification on treatment of securities in Ineligible Alert Boards  
Appendix III: Country Classification of Securities  
* Added clarification on Red -chips  
* Clarification on the treatment of country of classification review following an 
incorporation change  
 
The following sections ha ve been modified since June 2019:  
3.2.4 Quarterly Index Reviews of Changes in FIFs  
* Clarifications and updates  
Appendix II: Market Classification Framework  
* Updated the table and summarized measure for "Availability of Investment 
Instruments"  
 
The following sections ha ve been modified since August 2019:  
Section 3.2.2 Quarterly Index Review of Addition of Companies Currently Not 
Constituents of the Investable Market Indexes  
* Clarification on the cutoff used when assigning companies to the Large cap 
Index   
Appendix V: Free Float Definition and Estimation Guidelines  
* Clarification on treatment of NVDRs   
Appendix XVIII MSCI Provisional Argentina Indexes and MSCI Argentina Indexes  
 * Appendix deleted  
 
The following sections ha ve been modified since August 2019:  
Section 2.1.1. Identifying Eligible Equity Securities  
* Clarification on eligibility of securities  
Section 3.4.4. IPOs and Other Early Inclusion  
* Clarification on announcement policy on early inclusion of STAR board securities  
Appendix I Equity Markets and Universe  
* Updates on eligible segments  
Appendix XV Inclusion of China A Shares in the MSCI China Indexes  
* Updated with details on the third step of weight increase of China A shares  
Appendix XVI MSCI China A Indexes  
* Updates on migrations  
 
The following sections ha ve been modified since November 2019:  
Section 3.2.4: Quarterly Index Review of Changes in FIFs  
* Removed the treatment of conversions based on Corporate Events methodology  
Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Developed Markets)  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Standalone Markets)  
* Updated list of Ineligible Alert Boards  
Appendix III: Country Classification of Securities  
* Added clarification on country classification methodology for China  
Appendix IV: Foreign Listing Materiality Requirement  
* Added Slovenia to the list  
Appendix XII: MSCI Domestic Indexes  
* Updated list of countries which have domestic indexes to include Australia  
 
The following sections ha ve been modified since January 2020:  
 Appendix XIII: Inclusion of the MSCI Saudi Arabia Indexes in the MSCI Emerging 
Markets Indexes  
* Removed and replaced with new Appendix XIII  
Appendix XIII: Reclassification of the MSCI Kuwait Indexes to Emerging Markets  
* Replaced with old Appendix XIII  
Appendix XIV: MSCI China Indexes  
* Updated following inclusion of Mid Cap China A shares as part of the November 
2019 SAIR  
Appendix XV: Index Maintenance of the MSCI China Indexes  
* Updated following inclusion of Mid Cap China A shares as part of the November 
2019 SAIR  
Appendix XVI: MSCI China A Inclusion Indexes  
* Updated following inclusion of Mid Cap China A shares as part of the November 
2019 SAIR  
Appendix XVII: MSCI China A Indexes  
* Updated following inclusion of Mid Cap China A shares as part of the November 
2019 SAIR  
 
The following sections ha ve been modified since February 2020:  
Section 2.5: Classifying Securities under the Global Industry Classification Standard  
* Removed details on guidelines for GICS classification  
Section 3.2.4: Quarterly Index Review of Changes in FIFs  
* Clarifications  
Section 3.2.5: Quarterly Index Review of Changes in Number of Shares (NOS)  
* Clarifications  
Section 3.4.5: Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS)  
* Updated to mention the implementation of GICS changes in MSCI indexes  
Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Frontier Markets)  
Appendix V: Free Float Definition and Estimation Guidelines  
* Updates  
 Appendix VI: Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS)  
* Removed the Appendix  
 
The following sections ha ve been modified since April 2020:  
Appendix XII: Reclassification of the MSCI Kuwait Indexes to Emerging Markets  
* Reflecting the announcements as of April 2020  
Section 3.1.2.4: Minimum Liquidity Requirement for Existing Constituents  
* Clarification on listing selection  
 
The following sections ha ve been modified since April 2020:  
Section 3.1.4.1 Determining Initial Segment Number of Companies  
* Clarification  
Section 3.1.9: Date of Data Used for Semi -Annual Index Review  
* Clarification on full market capitalization calculation  
 
Section 3.2.6: Date of Data Used for Quarterly Index Reviews  
* Clarification on full market capitalization calculation  
 
Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Emerging Markets)  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Frontier Markets)  
Appendix III: Country Classification of Securities  
* Updates  
Appendix V: Free Float Definition and Estimation Guidelines  
* Clarifications  
 
The following sections have been modified since May 2020:  
2.3.5 Determining Market Size -Segment Cutoffs and Assigning Companies to Size -
Segments: Example  
* Reordered from previous section  
2.5.3 GICS -Based Indexes  
 * Combined with previous section Classifying Securities under the Global Industry 
Classification Standard  
Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Emerging Markets)  
* Updated list of countries with REITs to include Philippines  
 
Appendix III: Country Classification of Securities  
* Clarification  
 
 
The following section ha s been modified since August 2020:  
Appendix III: Country Classification of Securities  
* Updated the treatment of China under the section "Country Specific Cases"  
 
The following section ha s been modified since September 2020:  
Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* Clarification on eligibility under the section "Canadian Income Trusts"  
 
The following sections have been modified since October 2020:  
Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Developed Markets)"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Emerging Markets)"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Frontier Markets)"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Standalone Markets)"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Classes of Securities for stock exchanges in Emerging 
Markets"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Classes of Securities for stock exchanges in Frontier 
Markets"  
Appendix II: Market Classification Framework  
* Updated the table "Markets Under Index Continuity"  
Appendix IV: Foreign Listing Materiality Requirement  
* Added Singapore to the list  
 Appendix IX: Frontier Markets Country Classification  
* Removed Kuwait  
 
The following sections have been modified since November 2020:  
Appendix V: Treatment of Investment Sanctions Related to U.S Executive Order 
13959  
* New Appendix added  
Appendix XII: MSCI Domestic Indexes  
* Updated to reflect treatment of investment sanctions related to U.S. Executive 
Order 13959  
 
The following sections have been modified since December 2020:  
Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Developed Markets)"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Emerging Markets)"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Frontier Markets)"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Standalone Markets)"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Classes of Securities for stock exchanges in Frontier 
Markets"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Classes of Securities for stock exchanges in 
Standalone Markets"  
Appendix II: Market Classification Framework  
* Updated the table "Markets Under Index Continuity"  
Appendix V: Treatment of Investment Sanctions Related to U.S. Executive Order 
13959  
* Added clarifications  
Appendix IX: Frontier Markets Country Classification  
* Updated the tables "MSCI Frontier Markets Indexes" and "Standalone Market 
Indexes"  
Appendix XII: Reclassification of the MSCI Kuwait Indexes to Emerging Markets  
* Appendix deleted  
  
The following section ha s been modified since February 2021:  
Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Emerging Markets)"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Classes of Securities for stock exchanges in Emerging 
Markets"  
 
The following sections have been modified since March 2021:  
Section 2.3.6.3: Treatment of Securities that Exhibit Extreme Price Increase  
* New section added following consultation  
Section 3.1.6.2: For Existing Constituents  
* Clarifications added following consultation  
Section 3.2.1.4: Assessing Conformity with Final Size -Segment Investability 
Requirements  
* Clarifications added following consultation  
Section 3.2.2: Quarterly Index Review of Additions of Companies Currently not 
Constituents of the Investable Market Indexes  
* Clarifications added following consultation  
Appendix VIII: Market Monitoring and Potential Switch to a Light Rebalancing under 
Conditions of Market Stress  
* New Appendix added following consultation  
 
The following sections have been modified since April 2021:  
Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Developed Markets)"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Emerging Markets)"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Frontier Markets)"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Standalone Markets)"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Classes of Securities for stock exchanges in Emerging 
Markets"  
Appendix II: Market Classification Framework  
 * Updated the table "Markets Under Index Continuity"  
Appendix IX: Frontier Markets Country Classification  
* Removed Iceland from Standalone Markets, added to Frontier Markets  
Appendix XIV: MSCI China Indexes  
* Added clarifications  
Appendix XV: Index Maintenance of the MSCI China Indexes  
* Added clarifications  
 
The following sections have been modified since May 2021:  
Section 3.3.3.2 Changes in Size or Style Segment Classification as a Result of a 
Large Corporate Event  
* Update for Micro Cap  
Section 3.3.3.4 Early Deletions of Existing Constituents   
* Update for Micro Cap  
Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Frontier Markets)"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Classes of Securities for stock exchanges in 
Developed Markets"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Classes of Securities for stock exchanges in Emerging 
Markets"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Classes of Securities for stock exchanges in Frontier 
Markets"  
* Updated the table "Ineligible Alert Boards"  
 
The following section ha s been modified since August  2021:  
Appendix V: Treatment of Investment Sanctions Related to U.S Executive Order 
13959  
* Clarifications added  
 
The following sections have been modifie d as of September 2021:  
Section 2.2.2: Applying Investability Screens  
 * Added  Financial Reporting  Requirement  to the list  following consultation  
Section 2.2.9: Financial Reporting  Requirement  
* New section added following consultation  
Section 4.1: Constructing the MSCI All Cap Indexes  
* Added Financial Reporting Requirement to the list following consultation  
Section 4.1.6: Financial Reporting Requirement  
* New section added following consultation  
Appendix III: Country Classification of Securities  
* Clarifications added  
 
The following sections have been modified as of November  2021:  
Section 3.1.9: Date of Data Used for Semi -Annual Index Review  
* Updated FIF and NOS review for additions/deletions  
Section 3.2.6: Date of Data Used for Quarterly Index Review  
* Updated FIF and NOS review for additions/deletions  
Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Emerging Markets)"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Frontier Markets)"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Standalone Markets)"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Classes of Securities for stock exchanges in Emerging 
Markets"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Classes of Securities for stock exchanges in Frontier 
Markets"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Classes of Securities for stock exchanges in 
Standalone Markets"  
Appendix II: Market Classification Framework  
* Updated the table "Markets Under Index Continuity"  
Appendix IV: Foreign Listing Materiality Requirement  
* Updated the table "Countries for which foreign listings are eligible"  
Appendix  XI: Frontier markets Country Classification  
 * Added Pakistan to Frontier Markets  
* Added Argentina to Standalone Markets  
 
The following sections have been modified as of February 2022:  
Appendix III: Country Classification of Securities  
* Clarifications added  
Appendix IX: Policy Regarding Trading Suspensions and Market Closures During 
Index Reviews  
* Clarifications added  
 
The following sections have been modified as of March  2022:  
Section 2.5.2: Composite Indexes  
* Updated examples of composite indexes  
Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Emerging Markets)"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Standalone Markets)"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Classes of Securities for stock exchanges in Emerging 
Markets"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Classes of Securities for stock exchanges in 
Standalone Markets"  
 
The following section ha s been modified as of April 2022:  
Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Developed Markets)"  
 
The following sections have been modified as of May 2022:  
Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Developed Markets)"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Frontier Markets)"  
Appendix II: Market Classification Framework  
 * Updated the table "Markets Under Index Continuity"  
Appendix VI: Free Float Definition and Estimation Guidelines  
* Updated the table "List of countries for which MSCI monitors foreign room on a 
quarterly basis"  
Appendix XI: Frontier Markets Country Classification  
* Added clarification on Russia to footnote on Standalone Markets  
 
The following sections have been modified as of August 2022:  
Section 2.2.5 DM and EM Minimum Liquidity Requirement  
* Updated Footnote  
Section 3.2.5 Quarterly Index Review of Changes in Number of Shares (NOS)  
* Updated Footnote  
Appendix I: Eligible Markets (Developed Markets)  
* Updated Footnote  
 
The following sections have been modified as of November 2022:  
Section 3.3.3.3 Early Inclusions of Non -Index Constituents  
* Clarification on foreign room requirement when non -constituent acquires 
constituent  
Appendix I: Eligible Markets (Developed Markets)  
* Updated Footnote  
 
The following section ha s been modified as of December 2022:  
Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Emerging Markets)"  
 
The following sections have been modified as of January 2023:  
* Methodology book was updated to reflect the transition to Quarterly 
Comprehensive Index Reviews.  
 * All references to "Semi -Annual Index Reviews" and "Quarterly Index Reviews" 
were replaced with "Index Reviews".  
Section 3.1.2.1 Eligib ility of Foreign Listings  
* Update to clarify that foreign listings are eligible if the requirement is met at least 
two Index Reviews prior  
Section 3.1.2.4 Minimum Liquidity Requirement for Existing Constituents  
* Updated the requirements for the  maintenance  (remov al) of  the Liquidity 
Adjustment Factor  
Section 3.1.2.7 Minimum Length of Trading Requirement  
* Clarification on the requirement  
Section 3.2: Quarterly Index Reviews in February and August  
* Section removed  
Section 5.2.1 Categorization of Frontier Markets into Larger and Smaller Markets  
* Updated the periodicity of review of the categorization of Frontier Markets as a 
Larger or Smaller market  
* Updated the periodicity of review of the Equity Universe Minimum Float -Adjusted 
Market Capitalization Requirement for existing constituents  
Section 5.2.2 FM Minimum Liquidity Requirement  
* Updated the periodicity of review of the categorization of Frontier Markets into 
very low, low or average liquidity markets  
Section 5.2.2.2  Minimum Liquidity Requirement for Existing Constituents  
* Updated the requirements for the maintenance (removal) of the Liquidity 
Adjustment Factor  
Appendix II: Market Classification Framework  
* Updated table on markets under index continuity  
Appendix I II: Country Classification of Securities  
* Added footnote to "Change in Country Classification" section  
Appendix VI: Free Float Definition and Estimation Guidelines  
* Included details on the Index Review Changes in FIF and NOS that will be used 
starting from the May 2023 Index Review  
Appendix VIII: Market Monitoring Framework and Potential Switch to a Light 
Rebalancing under Conditions of Market Stress  
* Included details on the maintenance rules to be followed during Light 
Rebalancings  
Appendix XIX: Transition to a Quarterly Comprehensive Index Review  
 * New Section  
 
The following sections have been modified as of February 2023:  
Appendix II: Market Classification Framework  
* Updated the table "Markets Under Index Continuity"  
Appendix XX: MSCI Provisional GICS Indexes  
* New Section  
 
The following sections have been modified as of March 2023:  
Appendix I: Eligible Markets (S tandalone Markets)  
* Removed Russia from table Eligible Markets  along with corresponding footnote  
Appendix I: Eligible Classes of Securities (Standalone Markets)  
* Removed Russia from table Eligible Classes of Securities  along with 
corresponding footnote  
Appendix III: Country Classification of Securities  
* Removed "Russia" section  
Appendix IV: Foreign Listing Materiality Requirement  
* Removed Russia from table along with corresponding footnote  
Appendix VII: Price Source for Securities Removed reference to Russia in footnote  
* Removed "Russia" section  
Appendix XI: Frontier Markets Country Classification  
* Removed reference to Russia in footnote  
Appendix XII: MSCI DR Indexes  
* Removed reference to Russia in "Dividend Reinvestment for DR Indexes" section  
 
The following sections have been modified as of Ma y 2023:  
Section 3.1.5.1: Using Buffer Zones to Manage the Migration of Companies between 
Size -Segment Indexes  
* Added clarification  
Section 3.1. 7: Index Review of Changes in Foreign Inclusion Factors (FIFs)  
* Updated the rules for FIF review  
  
Section 3.1. 8: Index Review of Changes in Number of Shares (NOS)  
* Updated the rules for NOS review  
Section 3. 2.3.1: Changes in FIF, Number of Shares or Industry Classification for 
Existing Constituents  
* Alignment with section 3.1.7 for events below implementation threshold  
 
Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Developed Markets)"  
 
Appendix II: Market Classification Framework  
* Updated the table "Markets Under Index Continuity"  
 
Appendix III: Country Classification of Securities  
* Updated the periodicity of Change in Country Classification  
 
 
Appendix VI: Free Float Definition and Estimation Guidelines  
* Updated the rules the NOS review cut off date  
* Added reference to the MSCI Free Float Data Methodology  
* Removed Index Review of Changes in FIF and NOS starting from the May 2023 
Index Review  
 
 
The following sections have been modified as of July  2023:  
Section 2: Constructing the MSCI Global Investable Market Indexes  
* Updated footnote  
 
Section 2.1.2 : Country Classification of Eligible Securities  
* Updated description  
  
 
Section 5.1: Frontier Markets Defintion  
* Updated definition  
 
Section 5.2: Methodology Used to Construct and Maintain the MSCI Frontier Markets 
Indexes  
* Updated the distinction  between Frontier Markets and Developed and Emerging 
Markets  
* Removed subsection on Categorization of Frontier Markets into Larger and 
Smaller Markets  
* Added subsection for Equity Universe Minimum Size Requirement  
* Added subsection for Global Minimum Size Reference  
* Updated subsection on Minimum Liquidity Requirement for Existing Consitutents  
* Removed subsection on Final Size -Segment Investability Requirements  
* Updated subsection on Index Continuity Rules  
* Removed subsection on IPOs and Other Early Inclusions  
 
Section 6.5: Treatment of Discontinued Standalone Market Indexes  
* Added section  
 
Appendix II: Market Classification Framework  
* Updated table  
 
Appendix X: Updating the Global Minimum Size References and Ranges Added 
reference to the MSCI Free Float Data Methodology  
* Added reference to Frontier  Markets  
 
Appendix XI: Frontier Markets Country Classification  
* Updated table  
  
Appendix XX: MSCI Provisional GICS Indexes  
* Deleted section  
 
Appendix XX: Changes to the MSCI Frontier Markets Indexes Methodology  
* Added section  
 
The following sections have been modified as of August  2023:  
Section 2.2.3: Equity Universe Minimum Size Requirement  
* Added distinction for Developed Markets, Emerging Markets, and Frontier 
Markets  
 
Section 2. 3.3: Determining the Segment Number of Companies and Associated 
Market Size -Segment Cutoffs  
* Deleted sentence for disclosing latest Index Review Developed Markets Global 
Minimum Size Reference for Investable Market Indexes  
  
Section 5.2.2: Global Minimum Size Reference  
* Added reference for Frontier Markets Global Minimum Size Reference  
 
Appendix II: Market Classification Framework  
* Updated the footnote in the table of "Market Classification Framework" for the 
high income threshold  
* Updated the description , footnote  and table of "Markets Under Index Continuity"   
 
Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Frontier Markets)"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Standalone Markets)"  
* Updated Ineligible Alert Boards and footnotes  
 
 The following sections have been modified as of November  2023:  
Section 2. 3.2.1: Defining the Global Minimum Size Reference  
* Added clarification  
 
Section 3. 1.6.2 : For existing constituents  
* Added footnote  
 
Section 3.1. 7: Index Review of Changes in Foreign Inclusion Factors (FIFs)  
* Updated the rules for FIF review  
 
Section 3.3: Announcement Policy  
* Added clarification  
 
Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* Updated the table "Eligible Markets (Frontier Markets)"  
* Updated the table "Eligible Classes of Securities for Stock Exchanges in Frontier 
Markets"  
* Updated list of countries with REITs and added footnote  
* Updated Ineligible Alert Boards and footnotes  
 
Appendix II: Market Classification Framework  
* Updated the table of "Markets Under Index Continuity"   
 
Appendix III: Country Classification of Securities  
* Updated "Change in Country Classification" section  
 
Appendix I V: Foreign Listing Materiality Requirement  
* Updated the dates for clarification  
* Updated the table of "Countries for which foreign listings are eligible "  
 
 Appendix XI: Frontier Markets Country Classification  
* Updated th e table   
 
The following sections have been modified as of February  2024:  
 
Section 3.2.5: Corporate Events Affecting the Index Review  
* Updated the corporate events related monitoring  for Index Review  
 
Appendix I: Equity Markets and Universe  
* Updated the tables "Eligible Markets (Frontier Markets)" and Eligible Markets 
(Standalone Markets)  
* Updated the table "Eligible Classes of Securities for Stock Exchanges in Frontier 
Markets" and "Eligible Classes of Securities for Stock Exchanges in Standalone 
Markets"  
 
Appendix II: Market Classification Framework  
* Updated the table of "Markets Under Index Continuity"   
 
Appendix I V: Foreign Listing Materiality Requirement  
* Updated the table of "Countries for which foreign listings are eligible "  
 
Appendix XI: Frontier Markets Country Classification  
* Updated the table   
 
The following section h as been modified as of  April  2024: 
Section 2.3.6.3: Treatment of Securities that Exhibit Extreme Price Increase  
* Updated  the monitoring  period to include 90 -day, 120 -day, 150 -day, 180 -day and 
250-day and apply the corresponding excess return thresholds following 
consultation
 Appendix  VI: Free Float Definition and Estimation Guidelines  
* Updated the Treatment  of Depository Receipts where Underlying Shares are Not 
Available for  Trading  
 
The following section h as been modified as of  May  2024: 
3.1.9 : Date of Data Used for Index Reviews  
* Updated footnote for Price Cutoff Date  
Appendix I:  Equity Markets and Universe  
* Updated the tables  "Eligible Markets (Emerging Market),"  "Eligible Markets 
(Frontier Markets)," "Eligible Markets (Standalone Markets)" and "Ineligible Alert 
Boards" and updated  footnotes  
* Clarification on the Treatment of Indonesia Watchlist Board due to Criteria 10 
and Taiwan Disposition Board.  
 
Appendix II: Market Classification Framework  
* Updated the table of "Markets Under Index Continuity"   
 
Appendix I V: Foreign Listing Materiality Requirement  
* Updated the table of "Countries for which foreign listings are eligible "  
 
Appendix  VI: Free Float Definition and Estimation Guidelines  
* Added a footnote on the Iceland Fisheries Treatment  
* Added clarification on the Treatment  of Depository Receipts where Underlying 
Shares are Not Available for  Trading  
 
The following section h as been modified as of  August  2024: 
2.5.3 GICS -Based Indexes  
* Updated the number of  Industry Groups , Industries and Sub -Industries   
Appendix I:  Equity Markets and Universe  
 * Updated the tables "Eligible Markets (Developed Market s)," "Eligible Markets 
(Emerging  Markets)," "Eligible Markets (Standalone Markets)"  and updated 
footnotes   
* Clarification of Ineligible Alert Boards  
Appendix II: Market Classification Framework  
* Clarification of Market Classification process   
Appendix VI: Free Float Definition and Estimation Guidelines  
* Added clarification to  the treatment of the capital raising method  for Depository 
Receipts where Underlying Shares are Not Available for  Trading  
Appendix XI: Frontier Markets Country Classification  
* Updated the table   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 