 1. Introduction  
The MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes ('the Indexes') are free float -adjusted market capitalization -weighted 
indexes designed to represent the performance of  companies that are selected from an underlying 
index based on Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) criteria. These criteria exclude  
constituents based on involvement in specific business activities , as well as  ESG ratings and 
exposure to  ESG controversies. The Indexes are derived from underlying MSCI indexes ("Parent 
Indexes") and aim to achieve sector we ights that reflect the sector weights of the corresponding 
Parent Index es. The Index construction targets 50% free float -adjusted market capitalization 
coverage of each Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS(r))1 sector by selecting constituents 
primarily based on criteria including the ESG rating, the trend in that rating and the company's 
industry -adjusted ESG score.  
 
Currently, MSCI constructs the Indexes for the Standard size -segment in all Developed and Emerging 
Markets and the Small Cap size -segment in the USA2.  
  
 
1 GICS is the global industry classification standard jointly developed by MSCI and S&P Global Market Intelligence.   
2 The Indexes are governed by a set of methodology and policy documents ("Methodology Set"), including the present index 
methodology document. Please refer to Appendix V for more details. . 
  
2. Constructing  the Indexes  
2.1  Underlying  Universe  
The Underlying  Universe for the Indexes is defined by the constituents of the MSCI Global Investable 
Market Indexes ( "GIMI "). 
2.2  Eligibility Criteria  
The Indexes  use company ratings and research provided by M SCI ESG Research3 to determine 
eligibility for Index inclusion.  
2.2.1  ESG Ratings  Eligibility  
The Indexes use MSCI ESG Ratings to identify c ompanies that have demonstrated an ability to 
manage their ESG risks and opportunities. Companies are required to have an MSCI ESG  Rating of 
'BB' or above to be eligible for inclusion in the Indexes.  
2.2.2  ESG Controversies Score Eligibility  
The Indexes use MSCI ESG Controversies Scores  to identify c ompanies that are involved in very 
serious controversies involving the environmental, social, or governance impact of their operations 
and/or products and services.  Companies  are required to have an MSCI ESG Controversies Score of 
3 or above to be eligible for inclusion in the Indexes . 
2.2.3  Controversial Business  Involvement Criteria  
The Indexes use MSCI ESG Business Involvement Screening Research and MSCI Climate Change 
Metrics to identify c ompanies that are involved in the following business activities.  Companies that 
meet the business involvement criteria are excluded from t he Indexes.  Please refer to Appendix II 
for details on these criteria.  
* Controversial Weapons  
* Nuclear Weapons  
* Civilian Firearms  
* Tobacco  
* Alcohol  
* Conventional Weapons  
* Gambling  
 
3 See section 4 for further information regarding ESG and climate data used in the Indexes that MSCI Limited and MSCI Deutschland 
GmbH source from MSCI ESG Research LLC, a separate subsidiary of MSCI Inc. MSCI ESG Research is solely responsible for the 
creation,  determination and management of such data as a provider to MSCI Limited and MSCI Deutschland GmbH. MSCI Limited 
and MSCI Deutschland GmbH are the benchmark administrators for the MSCI indexes . 
 
 * Nuclear Power  
* Fossil Fuel Extraction  
* Thermal Coal Power  
2.3 Index Construction  
Currently MSCI constructs MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes for:  
* The Standard size -segment in all Developed and Emerging Markets; and  
* The Small Cap size -segment in the USA.  
The Indexes for the Standard size -segment are constructed at a regional level, with the exception of 
North America which is built separately for Canada and the USA. Each regional Index targets 50% of 
the free float -adjusted market capitalization within each  GICS sector of the underlying Parent Index.  
The following regional Indexes are aggregated to construct the MSCI World ESG Leaders Index.  
MSCI Regional ESG Leaders 
Index  Region  Parent Index  
MSCI Pacific ESG Leaders Index  Developed Asia Pacific  MSCI Pacific Index  
MSCI Europe & Middle East ESG 
Leaders Index  Developed Europe & Middle 
East  MSCI Europe & Middle East 
Index  
MSCI Canada ESG Leaders Index  Canada  MSCI Canada Index  
MSCI USA ESG Leaders Index  USA  MSCI USA Index  
 
The following regional Indexes are aggregated to construct the MSCI EM ESG Leaders Index.  
MSCI Regional ESG Leaders 
Index  Region  Parent Index  
MSCI Emerging Markets Asia ESG 
Leaders Index  Emerging Asia  MSCI Emerging Markets Asia 
Index  
MSCI Emerging Markets Europe, 
Middle East & Africa ESG Leaders 
Index   Emerging Europe, Middle 
East & Africa  MSCI Emerging Markets 
Europe, Middle East & Africa 
Index  
MSCI Emerging Markets Latin 
America ESG Leaders Index  Emerging Latin America  MSCI Emerging Markets 
Latin America Index  
 
The MSCI USA Small Cap ESG Leaders Index  is constructed by targeting 50% of the free float -
adjusted market capitalization  within each sector of the MSCI US A Small Cap Index.   The MSCI USA 
IMI ESG Leaders Index  is created by aggregating the MSCI USA ESG Leaders Index  and the MSCI 
USA Small Cap ESG Leaders Index .  
The MSCI World ESG Leaders  Index and the MSCI EM ESG Leaders  Index are aggregated to 
construct the MSCI ACWI ESG Leaders  Index.   
 The Large Cap and Mid Cap size -segments of the Indexes  are derived from the Standard size -
segment.  
The Indexes for other regions and countries are determined by including  securities from the 
particular region/country from the MSCI ACWI ESG Leaders Index  and weighting them according to  
their free float -adjusted market capitalization.  For example, the MSCI EAFE ESG Leaders Index  and 
the MSCI China ESG Leaders Index  are constructed by including  those securities from the MSCI 
ACWI ESG Leaders Index  which are a part of the MSCI EAFE Index and the MSCI China Index 
respectively and weighting them in the propor tion of their free float -adjusted market capitalization.  
2.4    Treatment of Unrated Companies  
Companies not assessed by MSCI ESG Research on data for  any of the  following MSCI ESG 
Research products are not eligible for inclusion in the Indexes : 
* MSCI ESG Ratings  
* MSCI ESG Controversies  
* MSCI Climate Change  Metrics  
* MSCI Business Involvement Screening Research (BISR)  
 
 
  
 3. Maintaining  the Indexes  
3.1 Annual  Index Review  
The Indexes are reviewed on an annual basis in May to coincide with the May Index Review of the 
Parent Index, and the changes are implemented at the end of May.  In general, the pro forma Indexes  
are announced  nine business days before the effective date.   
In general, MSCI uses MSCI ESG Research data4 (including MSCI ESG Ratings, MSCI ESG 
Controversies Scores , MSCI Business Involvement Screening Research  and MSCI Climate Change 
Metrics ) as of the end of the month preceding the Index Reviews for the rebalancing of  the Indexes .  
For some securities, such data may not be published by MSCI ESG Research by the end of the month 
preceding the Index Review.   For such securities, MSCI will use ESG data published after the end of 
month, when available, for the rebalancing of the Indexes .  
At each Annual Index Review, the Eligible Universe is updated, and the composition of the Index is 
reassessed in order to target 50% free float -adjusted cumulative market capitalization of each sector 
of the Parent Index.  
3.1.1  Updating the Eligible Universe  
The Eligible Universe is updated during each Annual Index Review.  
Companies that are currently not constituents of the Indexes are evaluated using the same eligibility 
criteria described in Section 2.2. 
Existing constituents of the Indexes are maintained in the Eligible Universe if they meet all the 
following conditions:  
* MSCI ESG Rating of 'BB' or above  
* MSCI ESG Controversies Score of 1 or above  
* Not screened by the business involvement criteria described in Section 2.2.3 
3.1.2  Ranking  of Eligible Securities  
For each sector, eligible securities of the regional Parent Index as described in Section 2.2 are 
ranked based on the following criteria:  
* ESG Rating  
* ESG Trend (positive ESG Trend preferred to neutral ESG Trend and neutral ESG Trend preferred 
to negative ESG Trend)5 
* Current Index membership (existing constituents above non -constituents of the Indexes)  
* Industry -adjusted ESG scores  
* Decreasing free float -adjusted market capitalization  
 
4 See section 4 for details of data sourced from MSCI ESG Research used in the Indexes.  
5 Please refer to Appendix I for more details.  
 3.1.3  Selection of Eligible Securities  
For each sector, eligible securities of the regional Parent Index are then selected from the ranked 
Eligible U niverse in the following order until the target 50% coverage by cumulative free float -
adjusted market capitalization is reached:  
* Securities in the top 35% cumulative free float -adjusted market capitalization coverage of the 
ranked universe, including the first security that increases the cumulative coverage above 35%  
* 'AAA' and 'AA' rated securities in the top 50%  cumulative free float -adjusted market 
capitalization coverage of the ranked universe, including the first security that increases the 
cumulative coverage above 50%  
* Current Index constituents in the top 65%  cumulative free float -adjusted market capitalization 
coverage of the ranked universe, including the first security that increases the cumulative 
coverage above 65% if that security is a current index constituent  
* Remaining eligible securities in the ranked universe  
Please see Appendix I for additional details on the ranking and selection rules.  
3.2 Quarterly  Index Reviews  
The Indexes are also reviewed on a quarterly basis in February, August and November to coincide 
with the regular Index Reviews of the Parent Indexes.  The changes are implemented at the end of 
February, August and November.  The pro forma Indexes  are in general announced  nine business 
days before the effective date.  
For the Quarterly Index Reviews, MSCI ESG Ratings, MSCI ESG Controversies Score  assessments 
and MSCI BISR data are taken as of the end of the month preceding the Index Reviews, i.e., January, 
July and October.  For some securities, this data may not be published by MSCI ESG Research by the 
end of the month preceding the Index Review.  For such securities, MSCI will use ESG data published 
after the end of month, when available, for the rebalancing of  the Indexes . 
At the Quarterly Index Reviews, existing constituents are deleted from the Indexes  if they do not 
meet the eligibility criteria described in Section 3.1.1. Existing constituents that meet the eligibility 
criteria are retained in the index.  
Additions, from the eligible securities as per Section 2.2, are made only to those sectors where the 
current market capitalization coverage is less than 45%, until the 50% target is reached.  
Market price movements may cause small deviations in the sector coverage between two Index 
Reviews.  Therefore, in order to minimize turnover, a buffer of 10% is used on the target coverage of 
50% to define under -representation.  
3.3 Ongoing Event -Related Maintenance  
The following section briefly describes the treatment of common corporate events within the 
Indexes.  
No new securities will be added (except where noted below) to the Index between Index Reviews. 
For cases where additions are noted below, securities will be added to the index only if added to the 
Parent Index.  
 Parent Index deletions will be reflected simultaneously.  
There are no deletions from the Indexes between Index Reviews on account of a security becoming 
ineligible because of MSCI ESG Rating downgrade and/or decrease in MSCI ESG Controversies 
Score and/or change in business involvement.  
 
EVENT TYPE      EVENT DETAILS    
 
New additions to the Parent Index  New securities added to the Parent Index (such as 
IPOs, other early inclusions and migrations from a 
different size -segment) will be added to the Indexes 
on the date of security inclusion only if they meet the 
eligibility criteria described in Section 2.2 and the 
market capitalization coverage of the sector to which 
the security belongs is less than 45%. 
  
Spin -Offs  All securities created as a result of the spin -off of an 
existing Index constituent will not be added to the 
Indexes at the time of event implementation. 
Reevaluation for addition in the Indexes will occur at 
the subsequent Index Review.  
 
Merger/Acquisition  If an existing Index constituent is acquired by a non -
Index constituent, the existing constituent will be 
deleted from the Index and the acquiring non -
constituent will not be added to the Index.  
 
Changes in Security Characteristics  A security will continue to be an Index constituent if 
there are changes in characteristics (country, sector, 
size segment, etc.). Reevaluation for continued 
inclusion in the Index will occur at the subsequent 
Index Review.  
 
Further detail and illustration regarding specific treatment of corporate events relevant to this Index 
can be found in the MSCI Corporate Events Methodology book.  
The MSCI Corporate Events methodology book is available at:  https://www.msci.com/index -
methodology . 
  
 4. MSCI ESG Research  
The Indexes are products of MSCI Inc. that utilize information such as company ratings and 
research produced and provided by MSCI ESG Research LLC (MSCI ESG Research) , a subsidiary of 
MSCI Inc. In particular, the Indexes use the following MSCI ESG Research products:  MSCI ESG 
Ratings, MSCI ESG Controversies, MSCI ESG Business Involvement Screening Research and MSCI 
Climate Change Metrics. MSCI Indexes are administered by  MSCI Limited.  
4.1 MSCI  ESG Ratings  
MSCI ESG Ratings  aim to measure entities' management of environmental, social and governance 
risks  and opportunities. MSCI  ESG Rating s use a weighted average key issue calculation that is 
normalized by industry to arrive at an industry -adjusted ESG score (0 -10), which is then translated to 
a seven -point scale from 'AAA ' to 'CCC' , indicating how an entity  manages relevant  key issue s 
relative to industry peers .  
The MSCI ESG Ratings methodology can be found at: https://www.msci.com/legal/disclosures/esg -
disclosures . 
4.2 MSCI ESG Controversies  
MSCI ESG Controversies provide assessments of controversies concerning the potential negative 
environmental, social, and/or governance impact of company operations, products and services.  
The evaluation framework used in MSCI ESG Controversies is designed to be consistent with 
international norms represented by the UN Declaration of Human  Rights, the ILO Declaration on 
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the UN Global Compact. MSCI ESG Controversies 
Score falls on a 0 -10 scale, with "0" being th e most severe controversy.   
The MSCI ESG Controversies methodology  can be found at: 
https://www.msci.com/legal/disclosures/esg -disclosures . 
4.3 MSCI ESG Business Involvement Screening Research  
MSCI ESG Business Involvement Screening Research (BISR) aims to enable institutional investors to 
manage environmental, social and governance (ESG) standards and restrictions reliably and 
efficiently.  
For more details on MSCI ESG Business Involvement Screening Research , please refer to 
https://www.msci.com/legal/disclosures/esg -disclosures . 
4.4 MSCI Climate  Change Metrics  
MSCI Climate Change Metrics  provide climate data & tools to support institutional investors seeking 
to integrate climate risk & opportunities into their investment strategy and processes. This includes 
investors seeking to achieve a range of objectives, including measuring and report ing on climate risk 
exposure, implementing low carbon and fossil fuel -free strategies, alignment with temperature 
pathways and factoring climate change research into their risk management processes, in particular 
through climate  scenario analysis for both transition and physical risks.  
 The dataset spans across the four dimensions of a climate strategy: transition risks, green 
opportunities, physical risks and 1.5deg alignment.   
For more details on MSCI Climate Change Metrics, please refer to https://www.msci.com/climate -
change -solutions .  
  
 Appendix I: Guidelines on Achieving the Target Sector Coverage 
of 50%  
The MSCI ESG Leaders  Indexes  target  50% coverage of the free  float -adjusted market capitalization 
of each GICS sector of the regional Parent Index.   The underlying principle in the construction of the 
indexes is to achieve cumulative sector coverage closest to 50%, while aiming to maintain index 
stability.  
The following guidelines are used in achieving the target cumulative sector coverage of 50%:  
* For each sector, the eligible companies of the regional Parent Index are first ranked based on the 
company level ESG Rating.  
* If two companies have the same ESG Rating, the company with better ESG Trend is given 
priority. ESG Trend is defined as the direction of the change in ESG Rating as of the latest review 
of the ESG Rating for a company.  
- Positive ESG Trend is given the highest priority. Positive ESG Trend indicates any upgrade in ESG Rating of 
any scale as of the latest review of the company's ESG Rating.  
- Neutral ESG Trend indicates an unchanged ESG Rating as of the latest review of the company's ESG Rating.  
Also, companies that receive a re -initiated ESG Rating due to a change in the ESG Ratings Industry are 
considered to have a neutral ESG Trend.  
- Negative ESG Trend is given the lowest priority. Negative ESG Trend indicates any downgrade in ESG Rating 
of any scale as of the latest review of the company's ESG Rating.  
* In case of two companies with the same ESG Rating  and the same ESG Trend, the existing ESG 
Leaders index constituent is given priority to maintain index stability.  Between two existing 
constituents with the same ESG Rating  and the same ESG Trend, the company with the higher 
industry -adjusted ESG score is given priority. For two existing ESG Leaders Index constituents 
with the same industry -adjusted ESG score, the security with the largest free float -adjusted 
market capitalization is given priority.  
* The cumulative sector coverage at each rank is calculated.  
* In each sector, companies are selected as per the rules mentioned in Section 3.1.2 until the 
cumulative sector coverage crosses 50% or there are no eligible securities left to be selected.  
* MSCI defines the company that increases the cumulative sector coverage above 50% as the 
"marginal company".  
 If the marginal company is a current ESG Leaders Index constituent, then it is always selected.  
 If the marginal company is not a current ESG Leaders Index constituent, then it is selected only if the 
cumulative sector coverage with the marginal company is closer to 50% compared to the cumulative sector 
coverage without the marginal company.  
* The minimum cumulative sector coverage is set to 45%.  
 The marginal company is always selected if this is required to achieve cumulative sector coverage of 45%.   
* Securities which are ineligible as per Section 3.1.1 will not be selected even if the cumulative 
sector coverage after selection of all eligible securities is below 50%.  
  
 Appendix II: Controversial Business Involvement Criteria  
MSCI ESG Research has developed a framework designed to define significant involvement in 
controversial activities. According to this framework, there are four levels of restrictiveness: Most 
Restrictive, Highly Restrictive, Moderately Restrictive, Least R estrictive.  
Each controversial activity screened by the MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes (except Fossil Fuel Extraction 
and Thermal Coal Power) is assigned to one of these restrictiveness levels.  
 
"Most Restrictive" screen applied  
* Controversial Weapons  
 All companies with any tie to Controversial Weapons (cluster munitions, landmines, depleted uranium 
weapons, biological/chemical weapons, blinding lasers, non -detectable fragments and incendiary weapons), 
as defined by the methodology of the MSCI Ex -Contro versial Weapons Indexes available at 
https://www.msci.com/index/methodology/latest/XCW  
"Highly Restrictive" screen applied  
* Nuclear Weapons  
 All companies that manufacture nuclear warheads and/or whole nuclear missiles  
 All companies that manufacture components  that were developed or are significantly modified for exclusive 
use in nuclear weapons (warheads and missiles)  
 All companies that manufacture or assemble delivery platforms that were developed or significantly 
modified for the exclusive delivery of nuclear weapons  
 All companies that provide auxiliary services related to nuclear weapons  
 All companies that manufacture components that were not developed or not significantly modified for 
exclusive use in nuclear weapons (warheads and missiles) but can be used in nuclear weapons  
 All companies that manufacture or assemble delivery platforms that were not developed or not significantly 
modified for the exclusive delivery of nuclear weapons but have the capability to deliver nuclear weapons  
 All companies that manufacture components for nuclear -exclusive delivery platforms  
 
"Moderately Restrictive" screen applied  
* Civilian Firearms  
 All companies deriving 5% or more revenue from the production of firearms and small arms ammunitions 
for civilian markets. It does not include companies that cater to the military, government, and law 
enforcement markets  
 All companies deriving 15% or more aggregate revenue from the production and distribution (wholesale or 
retail) of firearms or small arms ammunition intended for civilian use   
* Tobacco  
 All companies deriving 5% or more revenue from the production of tobacco -related products  
 All companies deriving 15% or more aggregate revenue from the production, distribution, retail,  supply and 
licensing of  tobacco -related products  
  
"Least Restrictive" screen applied  
* Alcohol  
 All companies deriving 10% or more revenue from the production of alcohol -related products  
* Conventional Weapons  
 All companies deriving 10% or more revenue from the production of conventional weapons  and components  
* Gambling  
 All companies deriving 10% or more revenue from ownership of operation of gambling -related business 
activities  
* Nuclear Power  
 All companies deriving 1 0% or more revenue from the ownership or operation of nuclear power plants  
 
No specific restrictiveness level applied  
* Fossil Fuel Extraction  
 All companies deriving 5% or more aggregate revenue (either reported or estimated) from thermal coal 
mining  and unconventional oil and gas extraction.  
o Thermal Coal Mining : Revenue from the mining of thermal coal (including lignite, bituminous, anthracite 
and steam coal) and its sale to external parties. It does not cover revenue from metallurgical coal; coal 
mined for internal power generation (e.g. in the case of vertically  integrated power producers); intra -
company sales of mined thermal coal; and revenue from coal trading  
o Unconventional Oil & Gas Extraction:  Revenue from oil sands, oil shale (kerogen -rich deposits), shale 
gas, shale oil, coal seam gas, and coal bed methane. It does not cover  all types of conventional oil and 
gas production including Arctic onshore/offshore, deep  water, shallow water and other 
onshore/offshore.  
* Thermal Coal Power  
 All companies deriving 5% or more revenue (either reported or estimated) from  thermal coal -based power 
generation.  
 
  
 Appendix III: Methodology Transition  
June 2013  
Prior to the May 2013 Index Review, the MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes were constructed using Global 
Socrates ESG Ratings.  Effective May 2013 Index Review, MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes transitioned to 
MSCI ESG IVA Ratings.  Any company that had an ESG Rating of 'CC C' of lower was not eligible for 
inclusion in the MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes.  The MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes were constructed by 
targeting 50% of the free float -adjusted market capitalization of each GICS sector of the underlying 
MSCI regional ESG Leaders Ind ex.  
 
June 2016  
Effective May 2016 Index Review, the MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes reflected enhancements to the 
MSCI ESG Controversies (formerly known as MSCI Impact Monitor).  The details of the changes are 
as given below.  
The changes to MSCI ESG Controversies included adjusting the scoring model to align the scores 
with individual controversy case levels, including the introduction of an Orange flag, and the removal 
of specific controversial business involvement (CBI) crite ria from the model to refocus the ESG 
Controversies scores on event -driven controversies.  
MSCI implemented the following changes to the MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes methodology effective 
June 1, 2016 to maintain consistency with the existing index construction objectives:  
1. As per the old MSCI ESG Impact Monitor methodology, securities which had an Impact 
Monitor score of 0 and 1 had a Red controversy flag.  Under the new methodology, only 
securities with an ESG controversies score of 0 have a Red controversy flag.  For indexes 
where constituents were ineligible to be included in the index if their Impact Monitor score 
was 0 or 1 (current Red controversy flag), the exclusion criteria was changed to ESG 
Controversies score = 0 in order to continue to only exclude secur ities wit h Red controversy 
flag in the MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes.  
2. MSCI Impact Monitor earlier incorporated exclusion rules based on controversial business 
involvement criteria related to alcohol, tobacco, gambling, nuclear power, conventional 
weapons and controversial weapons.   Therefore, additional exclusion rules based on the 
controversial business involvement criteria related to alcohol, tobacco, gambling, nuclear 
power, conventional weapons and controversial weapons that were incorporated in the old 
MSCI Impact Monitor scores  were introduced as part of the methodology  of the MSCI ESG 
Leaders Indexes.  The details of the exclusion rules are mentioned in Appendix II.  
 
June 2018  
Prior to the May 2018 Annual Index Review, existing constituents of the MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes 
could be maintained in the eligible universe if their MSCI ESG Rating was 'B' or above.  Effective from 
the May 2018 Annual Index Review, existing constituents  are required to have MSCI ESG Rating of 
'BB' or above in order to be maintained in the eligible universe.  
 
 
 December 2020  
Effective from the November 2020 Index Review, the controversial business involvement criteria 
have been enhanced to reflect the framework designed by MSCI ESG Research to define significant 
involvement in controversial activities. According to this framew ork, there are four restrictiveness 
levels: Most Restrictive, Highly Restrictive, Moderately Restrictive, Least Restrictive. Also, screens for 
Fossil Fuel Extraction and Thermal Coal Power were added.  
 
  
 Appendix IV: MSCI Country  and Region  ESG Leaders  Indexes  
The MSCI Country and Region ESG Leaders Indexes are constructed with an aim to represent the 
performance of companies that have high Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) 
performance.  
The MSCI Country ESG Leaders Indexes aim to target sector weights that reflect the relative sector 
weights of the underlying country Index to limit the systematic risk and country specific risk 
introduced by the ESG selection process.  Currently the MSCI Country ESG Leaders Indexes can be 
constructed for the Standard size -segment in any Developed and Emerging Markets.  
The MSCI Region ESG Leaders Indexes can be constructed for regions different than those used in 
the construction of the MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes and aim to target sector weights that reflect the 
relative sector weights of the underlying regional Index.  Currently the MSCI Region ESG Leaders 
Indexes can be constructed for the Standard size -segment in any regions in Developed and 
Emerging Markets.  
The MSCI Country and Region ESG Leaders Indexes are constructed by applying the index 
construction rules detailed in Section 2 at the level of the respective country or region covered by the 
index, instead of the specific regional level used in the construction of MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes.  
The MSCI Country and Region ESG Leaders Indexes target 50% of the free float -adjusted market 
capitalization of each GICS sector of the Parent Country or Region Index.  The MSCI Country and 
Region ESG Leaders Indexes follows the same index review cycle, maintenance rules and corporate 
events treatment as the MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes as described in Section 3.  
  
 Appendix V: Methodology Set   
The Indexes are governed by a set of methodology and policy documents ("Methodology Set"), 
including the present index methodology document as mentioned below:  
* Description of methodology set - 
https://www.msci.com/index/methodology/latest/ReadMe  
* MSCI Corporate Events Methodology - 
https://www.msci.com/index/methodology/latest/CE  
* MSCI Fundamental Data Methodology - 
https://www.msci.com/index/methodology/latest/FundData  
* MSCI Index Calculation Methodology - 
https://www.msci.com/index/methodology/latest/IndexCalc  
* MSCI Index Glossary of Terms - 
https://www.msci.com/index/methodology/latest/IndexGlossary  
* MSCI Index Policies - https://www.msci.com/index/methodology/latest/IndexPolicy  
* MSCI Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS) Methodology - 
https://www.msci.com/index/methodology/latest/GICS  
* MSCI Global Investable Market Indexes Methodology - 
https://www.msci.com/index/methodology/latest/GIMI  
* ESG Factors In Methodology*  
 
The Methodology Set for the Indexes can also be accessed from MSCI's webpage 
https://www.msci.com/index -methodology in the section 'Search Methodology by Index Name or 
Index Code'.  
* 'ESG Factors in Methodology' contains the list of environmental, social, and governance factors 
considered, and how they are applied in the methodology (e.g., selection, weighting or exclusion). It 
can be accessed in the Methodology Set as described abov e. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix VI: Changes to this Document   
The following sections have been modified as of November 2014:  
Section 2: MSCI ESG Research and Section 3: Constructing the MSCI ESG Leaders  Indexes  
* Clarification of MSCI ESG Leaders  Index construction rules  
Section 4: Maintaining the MSCI ESG Leaders  Indexes  
* Enhancement of treatment of corporate events  
The following sections have been modified as of May 2016:                   
Section 2: MSCI ESG Research  
* Updated to include the impact of the change in the MSCI ESG Controversies Scores 
methodology on MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes methodology  
 Section 3: Constructing the MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes  
* Changed Section 3 to update the eligibility criteria for inclusion in MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes 
and to include clarification on the construction of regional and country level ESG Leaders 
Indexes  
Section 4: Maintaining the MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes  
* Updated to clarify the treatment of ESG Rating downgrade or decrease in ESG Controversies 
scores between index reviews  
Appendix I: Guidelines on achieving the target sector coverage of 50%  
* Added a clarification to specify that non -eligible securities would not be included to increase the 
sector coverage to 50%  
Appendix II: Controversial Business Involvement Criteria  
* Added details of controversial business involvement criteria applicable effective June 2016  
Appendix III: Methodology Transition  
* Added details which highlight the changes to the MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes effective June 2016  
The following sections have been modified as of June 2016:                   
Section 3.2.3: Controversial Business Involvement Criteria  
* Updated to include civilian firearms to the list of controversial businesses  
Appendix II: Controversial Business Involvement Criteria  
* Updated the controversial business involvement criteria pertaining to Tobacco  
* Addition of the controversial business involvement criteria pertaining to Civilian Firearms  
The following sections have been modified as of November 2016:                   
Appendix IV: MSCI Country ESG Leaders  Index  
* Added details for construction of Country ESG Leaders Index es 
 The following sections have been modified as of May 2017:  
Section IV: Maintaining the MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes  
* Clarification on use of ESG data for securities whose data would be available after the end of the 
month preceding Index Review  
The following sections have been modified as of June 2017:  
* Methodology book updated to reflect the change in name of MS CI Global Sustainability Index  to 
MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes  
The following sections have been modified as of February 2018:  
Appendix IV: MSCI Country and Region ESG Leaders Indexes  
* Updated to include MSCI Region ESG Leaders Indexes  
The following sections have been modified as of May 2018:  
Section 3: Constructing the MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes  
* Removed the references to minimum ESG Ratings and ESG Controversies Score for existing 
constituents  
Section 4: Maintaining the MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes  
* Added references to minimum ESG Ratings and ESG Controversies Score for existing 
constituents  
* Updated the ranking rules to reflect the addition of the ESG Trend criterion  
Appendix I: Guidelines on Achieving the Target Sector Coverage of 50%  
* Added clarifications  
Appendix II: Controversial Business Involvement Criteria  
* Updated the controversial business involvement criteria pertaining to Controversial Weapons  
The following sections have been modified as of February 2019:  
Appendix I: Guidelines on Achieving the Target Sector Coverage of 50%  
* Updated the guidelines to reflect the addition of the ESG Trend criterion  
The following sections have been modified as of March 2019:  
Appendix V: MSCI Extended ESG Leaders Indexes  
* Added details for the methodology of the MSCI Extended ESG Leaders Indexes  
The following sections have been modified as of October 2019:  
Appendix V: MSCI Extended ESG Leaders Indexes  
* Added details for the methodology of the MSCI EM Extended ESG Leaders 5%  Issuer Capped 
Indexes  
The following sections have been modified as of November 2020:  
Section 3.2.3 : Controversial Business Involvement Criteria  
 * Added screens for 'Fossil Fuel Extraction'  and 'Thermal Coal Power'  
Section 4.1.3 : Selection of Eligible Securities  
* Clarified the selection rules  
Section 4.3: Ongoing Event -Related Maintenance  
* Clarified the  maintenance  rules   
Appendix II: Controversial Business Involvement Criteria  
* Updated the controversial business involvement  criteria for each activity according to the 
framework designed by ESG Research  
* Added screens for 'Fossil Fuel Extraction'  and 'Thermal Coal Power'  
Appendix V: MSCI Extended ESG Leaders Indexes  
* Added the MSCI Canada IMI Extended ESG Leaders Index, MSCI EAFE Extended ESG Leaders 
Index and the MSCI Canada IMI Extended ESG Leaders 5% Issuer Capped Index to the list of 
indexes under the methodology  
The following sections have been modified as of December 2020:  
Appendix II: Controversial Business Involvement Criteria  
* Updated the description of the 'Nuclear Power' screen  
The following sections have been modified as of May 2021:  
Appendix V: MSCI Extended ESG Leaders Indexes  
* Updated the branding and capping for the MSCI Canada IMI Extended ESG Leaders 10% Issuer 
Capped Index .  
The following sections have been modified as of August 2022:  
Section 4.1.2 : Ranking of Eligible Securities  
* Updated footnote  
Appendix I: Guidelines on Achieving the Target Sector Coverage of 50%  
* Clarified the definition of 'ESG Trend' and the priority rules for companies that have the same 
ESG Rating but a different ESG Trend  
The following sections have been modified as of November 2022:  
Section 4.1.2 : Ranking of Eligible Securities  
* Clarified the priority rules for existing constituents of the MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes  
The following sections have been modified as of May 2023:  
Section 1: Introduction  
* Updated the description of the MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes and added footnote on Methodology 
Set 
Section 3: Maintaining the MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes  
 * Updated to reflect the transition of the MSCI Global Investable Market Indexes (GIMI) to 
Quarterly Comprehensive Index Reviews (all references to "Semi -Annual Index Reviews" and 
"Quarterly Index Reviews" of the MSCI GIMI were replaced with "Index Reviews")  
Section 4: MSCI ESG Research  
* Moved that section after the Section 3 (Maintaining the MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes)  
* Added the definition of industry -adjusted ESG score under Section 4.1 (MSCI ESG Ratings)  
The following sections have been modified as of November  2023:  
Section 2: Constructing the Indexes  
* Clarified the eligibility criteria for ESG Ratings and ESG Controversy Score s.  
Appendix V: MSCI Extended ESG Leaders  
* Removed the MSCI Extended ESG Leaders Inde xes methodology from the  Appendix .  This 
methodology now  has a separate methodology book . 
Section 2.4: Treatment of Unrated Companies  
* New section  detailing the treatment of companies with ratings and research not available from 
MSCI ESG Research  
The following section ha s been modified as of January  2024: 
Appendix V: Methodology Set  
* Added details on the Methodology Set for the Indexes.  
The following section ha s been modified as of  August 2024  
Section 2. 4: Treatment of Unrated Companies  
* Added  the treatment  of companies when business  involvement  screening research or 
climate change metrics research not available from MSCI ESG Research  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Notice and disclaimer  
 
This document and all of the information contained in it, including without limitation all text, data, graphs, charts (collec tively, the "Information") is the property of 
MSCI Inc. or its subsidiaries (collectively, "MSCI"), or MSCI's licensors, direct or indirect suppliers or any third party involved in making or compiling any Information 
(collectively, with MSCI, the "Information Providers") and is provided for informational purposes only.  The Information may not be modified, reverse -engineered, 
reproduc ed or redisseminated in whole or in part without prior written permission from MSCI. All rights in the Information are reserv ed by MSCI and/or its Information 
Providers.  
The Information may not be used to create derivative works or to verify or correct other data or information.   For example ( but without limitation), the Information 
may not be used to create indexes, databases, risk models, analytics, software, or in conn ection with the issuing, offering, sponsoring, managing or marketing of any 
securities, portfolios, financial products or other investment vehicles utilizing or based on, linked to, tracking or otherwi se derived from the Information or any other 
MSCI data,  information, products or services.   
The user of the Information assumes the entire risk of any use it may make or permit to be made of the Information.  NONE OF THE INFORMATION PROVIDERS 
MAKES ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS WITH RESPECT TO THE INFORMATION (OR THE RESULT S TO BE OBTAINED BY THE USE 
THEREOF), AND TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, EACH INFORMATION PROVIDER EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ALL IMPLIED 
WARRANTIES (INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ORIGINALITY, ACCURACY, TIMELINESS, N ON-INFRINGEMENT, 
COMPLETENESS, MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE) WITH RESPECT TO ANY OF THE INFORMATION.  
Without limiting any of the foregoing and to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, in no event shall any Informatio n Provider have any liability regarding 
any of the Information for any direct, indirect, special, punitive, consequential (includin g lost profits) or any other damages even if notified of the possibility of such 
damages. The foregoing shall not exclude or limit any liability that may not by applicable law be excluded or limited, includ ing without limitation (as applicable), any 
liabil ity for death or personal injury to the extent that such injury results from the negligence or willful default of itself, its  servants, agents or sub -contractors.   
Information containing any historical information, data or analysis should not be taken as an indication or guarantee of any future performance, analysis, forecast 
or prediction.  Past performance does not guarantee future results.   
The Information may include "Signals," defined as quantitative attributes or the product of methods or formulas that describe  or are derived from calculations using 
historical data. Neither these Signals nor any description of historical data are intended to provide investment advice or a recommendation to make (or refrain from 
making) any investment decision or asset allocation and should not be relied upon as such. Signals are inherently backward -looking because of their use of historical 
data, and they a re not intended to predict the future. The relevance, correlations and accuracy of Signals frequently will change materially.  
The Information should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its manag ement, employees, advisors and/or clients 
when making investment and other business decisions.  All Information is impersonal and n ot tailored to the needs of any person, entity or group of persons.  
None of the Information constitutes an offer to sell (or a solicitation of an offer to buy), any security, financial product or other investment vehicle or any trading 
strategy.  
It is not possible to invest directly in an index.  Exposure to an asset class or trading strategy or other category represen ted by an index is only available through third 
party investable instruments (if any) based on that index.   MSCI does not issue, s ponsor, endorse, market, offer, review or otherwise express any opinion regarding 
any fund, ETF, derivative or other security, investment, financial product or trading strategy that is based on, linked to or  seeks to provide an investment return related 
to the performance of any MSCI index (collectively, "Index Linked Investments"). MSCI makes no assurance that any Index Linked I nvestments will accurately track 
index performance or provide positive investment returns.  MSCI Inc. is not an investment adviser  or fiduciary and MSCI makes no representation regarding the 
advisability of investing in any Index Linked Investments.  
Index returns do not represent the results of actual trading of investible assets/securities. MSCI maintains and calculates i ndexes, but does not manage actual 
assets. The calculation of indexes and index returns may deviate from the stated methodology. In dex returns do not reflect payment of any sales charges or fees 
an investor may pay to purchase the securities underlying the index or Index Linked Investments. The imposition of these fees  and charges would cause the 
performance of an Index Linked Investm ent to be different than the MSCI index performance.  
The Information may contain back tested data.  Back -tested performance is not actual performance, but is hypothetical.  There are frequently material differences 
between back tested performance results and actual results subsequently achieved by any invest ment strategy.   
Constituents of MSCI equity indexes are listed companies, which are included in or excluded from the indexes according to the  application of the relevant index 
methodologies. Accordingly, constituents in MSCI equity indexes may include MSCI Inc., clients o f MSCI or suppliers to MSCI.  Inclusion of a security within an MSCI 
index is not a recommendation by MSCI to buy, sell, or hold such security, nor is it considered to be investment advice.  
Data and information produced by various affiliates of MSCI Inc., including MSCI ESG Research LLC and Barra LLC, may be used in calculating certain MSCI indexes.  
More information can be found in the relevant index methodologies on www.msci.com.  
MSCI receives compensation in connection with licensing its indexes to third parties.  MSCI Inc.'s revenue includes fees base d on assets in Index Linked Investments. 
Information can be found in MSCI Inc.'s company filings on the Investor Relations section of msci.com.  
MSCI ESG Research LLC is a Registered Investment Adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and a subsidiary of MSCI I nc.  Neither MSCI nor any of its 
products or services recommends, endorses, approves or otherwise expresses any opinion regarding a ny issuer, securities, financial products or instruments or 
trading strategies and MSCI's products or services are not a recommendation to make (or refrain from making) any kind of inve stment decision and may not be 
relied on as such, provided that applica ble products or services from MSCI ESG Research may constitute investment advice. MSCI ESG Research materials, including 
materials utilized in any MSCI ESG Indexes or other products, have not been submitted to, nor received approval from, the Uni ted States  Securities and Exchange 
Commission or any other regulatory body. MSCI ESG and climate ratings, research and data are produced by MSCI ESG Research LL C, a subsidiary of MSCI Inc. 
MSCI ESG Indexes, Analytics and Real Estate are products of MSCI Inc. that ut ilize information from MSCI ESG Research LLC. MSCI Indexes are administered by 
MSCI Limited (UK)  and MSCI Deutschland GmbH . 
Please note that the issuers mentioned in MSCI ESG Research materials sometimes have commercial relationships with MSCI ESG R esearch and/or MSCI Inc. 
(collectively, "MSCI") and that these relationships create potential conflicts of interest.  In some cases , the issuers or their affiliates purchase research or other 
products or services from one or more MSCI affiliates. In other cases, MSCI ESG Research rates financial products such as mut ual funds or ETFs that are managed 
by MSCI's clients or their affiliat es, or are based on MSCI Inc. Indexes. In addition, constituents in MSCI Inc. equity indexes include companies that subscribe  to 
MSCI products or services. In some cases, MSCI clients pay fees based in whole or part on the assets they manage. MSCI ESG Re search has taken a number of 
steps to mitigate potential conflicts of interest and safeguard the integrity and independence of its research and ratings. M ore information about these conflict 
mitigation measures is available in our Form ADV, available at http s://adviserinfo.sec.gov/firm/summary/169222.   
Any use of or access to products, services or information of MSCI requires a license from MSCI. MSCI, Barra, RiskMetrics, IPD  and other MSCI brands and product 
names are the trademarks, service marks, or registered trademarks of MSCI or its subsidiaries in  the United States and other jurisdictions.  The Global Industry 
Classification Standard (GICS) was developed by and is the exclusive property of MSCI and S&P Global Market Intelligence.  "G lobal Industry Classification Standard 
(GICS)" is a service mark o f MSCI and S&P Global Market Intelligence.  
MIFID2/MIFIR notice: MSCI ESG Research LLC does not distribute or act as an intermediary for financial instruments or structu red deposits, nor does it deal on its 
own account, provide execution services for others or manage client accounts. No MSCI ESG Res earch product or service supports, promotes or is intended to 
support or promote any such activity. MSCI ESG Research is an independent provider of ESG data.  
Privacy notice: For information about how MSCI collects and uses personal data, please refer to our Privacy Notice at https://www.msci.com/privacy -pledge . 
(c) 2024 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  