1 Introduction  
The MSCI ACWI Select Sustainability Screened CTB Index, MSCI World Select Sustainability 
Screened CTB Index, MSCI Emerging Markets Select Sustainability Screened CTB Index, MSCI 
Europe Select Sustainability Screened CTB Index, MSCI USA Select Sustainability Screened CTB 
Index, MSCI Japan Select Sustainab ility Screened CTB Index, MSCI EMU Select Sustainability 
Screened CTB Index ("MSCI Select Sustainability Screened CTB Indexes" or the "Indexes"1) are 
designed to meet the minimum standards of the EU Climate Transition Benchmark (CTB) as per the 
EU Low Car bon Benchmark Regulation2, reduce exposure to select indicators that are associated 
with adverse environmental or social impact, and increase exposure to companies  participating in 
opportunities associated with  products and services that have a positive i mpact to the society and 
the environment. The MSCI Select Sustainability Screened CTB Indexes are constructed from their 
corresponding parent indexes and applies an optimization -based approach to meet select ESG and 
climate change -related ob jectives, such as:  
* Reduce by 30% the weighted average greenhouse gas intensity  (GHG)  relative to EVIC and 
the weighted average greenhouse gas intensity relative to Sales, with reference to the 
underlying investment universe  
* Reduce the weighted average gree nhouse gas intensity  relative to EVIC by 7% on an 
annualized basis,  
* Reduce the weighted average Water Emissions Intensity relative to EVIC  by 30%,  
* Reduce the weighted average Hazardous Waste Intensity relative to EVIC  by 30%,  
* Achieve a minimum of 10%  weighted average Sustainable Impact Revenue,  
* Achieve a modest tracking error compared to the parent indexes and maintain relatively low 
turnover, and  
* Achieve a minimum of 10% increase in the aggregate weight of companies setting targets 
relative to the aggregate weight of such companies that meet the ESG and climate -related 
eligibility criteria within the corresponding parent  indexes . 
 
  
 
1 The Indexes are governed by a set of methodology and policy documents ("Methodology Set"), including the present index 
methodology document. The methodology set for the Indexes can be accessed from MSCI's webpage 
https://www.msci.com/index -methodology  in the section 'Search Methodology by Index Name or Index Code'. The methodology set 
includes a document 'ESG Factors in Methodology' that contains the list of environmental, social, and governance factors 
considered, and how they are applied in the metho dology (e.g., selection, weighting or exclusion).  
2 Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818 of 17 July 2020 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 of the European 
Parliament and of the Council as regards minimum standards for EU Climate Transition Benchmarks and EU Paris -aligned 
Benchmarks: https://eur -lex.europa.eu/legal -content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:32020R1818&rid=1   
2 Constructing the MSCI Select Sustainability Screened CTB 
Indexes   
2.1 APPLICABLE UNIVERSE  
The Applicable Universe of the Indexes includes all the constituents of their respective MSCI Parent 
Index ("the Parent Index") as shown in the table below.   
Table 1: Indexes and their corresponding Parent Indexes  
No. Index Name  Parent Index  
1. MSCI ACWI Sele ct Sustainability  Screened CTB Index  MSCI ACWI Index  
2. MSCI World Sele ct Sustainability  Screened CTB Index  MSCI World Index  
3. MSCI EM Sele ct Sustainability  Screened CTB Index  MSCI Emerging 
Markets Index  
4. MSCI Europe Sele ct Sustainability  Screened CTB  Index  MSCI Europe Index  
5. MSCI USA Sele ct Sustainability  Screened CTB Index  MSCI USA Index  
6. MSCI Japan Sele ct Sustainability  Screened CTB Index  MSCI Japan Index  
7. MSCI EMU Sele ct Sustainability  Screened CTB Index  MSCI EMU Index  
 
2.2 ELIGIBLE UNIVERSE  
The Eligible Universe comprises of all securities from the Applicable Universe that meet each of the 
below eligibility criteria3: 
* Securities with an ESG Controversy score greater than 0 ('Red Flags')  
* Securities with an Enviro nment Controversy score greater than 1 ('Orange Flags')  
* Securities with an ESG Rating above 'CCC'  
* Securities with a Biodiversity & Land Use Key Issue score that does not belong to the bottom 
quartile  
* Securities that do not breach any of the values and cli mate change -based exclusions criteria 
detailed in Section 3.2.1.  
 
Note on Unrated Securities or Securities with Missing Coverage:  
Companies that are not assessed on MSCI ESG Research's ESG Controversies and ESG Ratings are 
excluded from the final universe.  
 
3 Where ESG data is applied, please r efer to Section 4 for further information regarding the ESG and climate data used in the Indexes 
that MSCI Limited sources from MSCI ESG Research LLC, a separate subsidiary of MSCI Inc. MSCI ESG Research is solely 
responsible for the creation, determinatio n and management of such data. MSCI Limited is the benchmark administrator for the 
MSCI indexes.  
2.2.1.  Values And Climate Change -Based Exclusions   
Companies that are involved in specific businesses, which are associated with negative 
environmental and/or social impact are ineligible for inclusion in the Index. The Indexes use MSCI 
ESG Business Inv olvement Screening Research and MSCI Climate Change Metrics to identify 
companies that are involved in the following business activities. Please refer to Appendix I for more 
details on these criteria.  
Values -based Exclusions  
* Controversial Weapons  
* Nuclear W eapons  
* Conventional Weapons  
* Civilian Firearms  
* Tobacco  
* Nuclear Power  
* Genetically Modified Organisms  
Climate Change -based Exclusions  
* Thermal Coal Mining  
* Unconventional Oil and Gas (including Arctic Oil and Gas) Extraction  
* Thermal Coal -based Power Generation  
 
2.3 SECURITY SELECTION AND WEIGHTING  
Securities in the Eligible Universe are selected and weighted following an optimization -based 
approach described below:  
At each Semi -Annual Index Review, the Indexes are constructed using an optimization process that 
aims  to achieve replicability and investability , as well as minimize ex -ante tracking error relative to 
their corresponding Parent Index, subject to the following constraints:  
1. Climate and other environmental or social objectives - constraints detailed in Table 2  
2. Diversification objectives - constraints detailed in Table 3  
The definitions of the target metrics for the optimization are detailed in Appendix I I. 
Table  2: Constraints imposed to meet the climate  and other ESG  objectives  
No. Climate and Other ESG Objectives  
1. Minimum reduction in Greenhouse Gas (GHG) 
Intensity relative to EVIC (Scope 1+2+34) relative 
to the Parent Index  30% 
2. Minimum reduction in GHG Intensity relative to 
Sales (Scope 1+2+35) relative to the Parent Index  30% 
3. Minimum average reduction (per annum) in GHG 
Intensity relative to EVIC relative to the GHG 
Intensity of the Index at the Base Date6 7% 
4. Minimum active weight in High Climate Impact 
Sector  relative to Parent Index a s defined in 
Appendix II  0% 
5. Minimum reduction in Water Emissions Intensity 
relative to EVIC relative to Parent Index7 30% 
6. Minimum reduction in Hazardous Waste Intensity 
relative to EVIC relative to Parent Index8 30% 
7. Minimum weighted average Sustainable Impact 
Revenue9 10% 
8. Minimum increase in aggregate weight in 
companies setting targets relative to the 
aggregate weight of such companies that are 
part of the Eligible Universe in the Parent Index  10% 
9. Maximum Weight in securities with an ESG 
Rating of 'BB' or 'B'  15% 
10. Minimum increase in weighted average ESG 
Score relative to Parent Index  0% 
 
 
 
 
4 Prior to the May 2020 Semi -Annual Index Review (SAIR) of the Indexes, the Weighted Average Carbon Emissions Intensity relative 
to EVIC has been calculated ba sed on Scope 1+2 Emissions.  
5 Prior to the May 2020 Semi -Annual Index Review (SAIR) of the Indexes, the Weighted Average Carbon Emissions Intensity relative 
to sales has been calculated based on Scope 1+2 Emissions.  
6 Prior to the May 2020 Semi -Annual In dex Review (SAIR) of the Indexes, the average reduction in Weighted Average Carbon 
Emissions Intensity relative to EVIC has been calculated using Scope 1+2 Emissions since Inception.  
7 Minimum Reduction in Water Emissions Intensity constraint is effective from May 2021 SAIR.  
8 Minimum Reduction in Hazardous Waste Intensity constraint is effective from May 2021 SAIR.  
9 Minimum weighted average Sustainable Impact Revenue constraint is effective from May 2020 SAIR.  
Table 3: Constraints imposed to meet  the diversification objectives  
No. Diversification Objective   
1. Active Region Weight relative to the Parent Index10 +/- 2% 
2. Constituent Active Weight  relative to the Parent 
Index  +/- 2% 
3. Security Weight as a multiple of its weight in the 
Parent Index  10x 
4. Active Sector Weights relative to the Parent 
Index11 +/-2% 
5. Country Weight as a multiple of its weight in the 
Parent Index  3x 
6. Active Country Weight s relative to the Parent 
Index12 +/-2% 
7. One Way Turnover  10% 
8. Common Factor Risk Aversion  0.0075  
9. Specific Risk Aversion  0.075  
 
During the Semi -Annual Index Review, in the event that there is no optimal solution that satisfies all 
the optimization constraints, the following constraints will be relaxed, until an optimal solution is 
found:  
* Relax the one -way index turnover constraint in steps of 1% up to 20%  
* Relax the active sector weight constraint in steps of 1% up/down to +/ -20% 
* The one -way index turnover constraint and the active sector weight constraint are alternately 
relaxed until a feasible solution is achieved.  
In the event th at no optimal solution is found after the above constraint relaxations are exhausted, 
the relevant Index will not be rebalanced for that Semi -Annual Index Review.  
 
2.4 DETERMINING THE OPTIMIZED INDEX  
The Indexes are constructed using the Barra Open Optimizer in combination with the relevant Barra 
Equity Model. The optimization uses the universe of eligible securities and the specified optimization 
objectives and constraints to determine the constituents of and the weights of constituents in the 
Index es. 
Please refer to Appendix III and IV for more details.  
  
 
10 Only applicable in MSCI World Select Sustai nability Screened CTB Index where active region weights of USA, Canada, Europe and 
Middle East, and Pacific are constrain ed at +/ - 2% 
11 In MSCI Emerging Markets Select Sustainability Screened CTB Index active sector weight constraint is applied at +/ - 5%. 
12 In MSCI Emerging Markets Select Sustainability Screened CTB Index active country weight constraint is applied at +/ - 5% 
3 Maintaining the MSCI Select Sustainability Screened CTB 
Indexes   
3.1 SEMI -ANNUAL INDEX REVIEWS  
The Indexes are rebalanced on a semi -annual basis, as of the close of the last business day of May 
and No vember, coinciding with the May and November Index Review s of the MSCI Global Investable 
Market Indexes. The pro forma Indexes are in general announced nine business days before the 
effective date.  
In general, MSCI uses MSCI ESG Research data ( including MSCI Climate Change Metrics, MSCI ESG 
Controversies, MSCI ESG Ratings, MSCI Business Involvement Screening Research, and MSCI 
Impact Solutions) as of the end of the month preceding the Index Reviews for the rebalancing of the 
Indexes.  
3.2 MONTHLY REV IEW OF CONTROVERSIES  
Index constituents are reviewed on a monthly basis for the involvement in ESG controversies13. 
Existing constituents will be deleted if they are assessed as having involvement  in ESG controversies 
that are classified as Red Flags (MSCI ESG Controversies Score of 0).  A Red Flag indicates an 
ongoing, Very Severe ESG controversy implicating a company directly through its actions, products, 
or operations.  
MSCI uses MSCI ESG Controv ersies data as of the end of the month preceding the review (e.g., end 
of June data for the July monthly review) For some securities, such data may not be published by 
MSCI ESG Research by the end  of the month preceding the review. For such securities, MSCI will use 
ESG data published after the end of month, when available, for the monthly review of the Index.   
The pro forma Index is generally announced nine business days before the first business day of the 
month.  
3.3 ONGOING EVENT RELATED CHANGES  
The general treatment of corporate events in the Indexes aims to minimize turnover outside of Index 
Reviews. The methodology aims to appropriately represent an investor's participation in an event 
based on re levant deal terms and pre -event weighting of the Index constituents that are involved. 
Further, changes in Index market capitalization that occur as a result of corporate event 
implementation will be offset by a corresponding change in the Variable Weighti ng Factor (VWF) of 
the constituent.  
Additionally, if the frequency of Index Reviews in the Parent Index is greater than the frequency of 
Index Reviews in the Index, the changes made to the Parent Index during intermediate Index Reviews 
will be neutralized  in the Index.  
The following section briefly describes the treatment of common corporate events within the Index.  
 
13 The monthly review of ESG controversies is applied within the Index effective  July 3, 2023 and is not applicable historically prior to 
that date.  
No new securities will be added (except where noted below) to the Index between Index Reviews. 
Parent Index deletions will be reflected simu ltaneously.  
 
EVENT TYPE      EVENT DETAILS    
 
New additions to the Parent Index  A new security added to the parent index (such as IPO 
and other early inclusions) will not be added to the 
index.  
 
Spin -Offs  All securities created as a result of  the spin -off of an 
existing Index constituent will be added to the Index 
at the time of event implementation  if the spin -off 
security is also added to the Parent Index . 
Reevaluation for continued inclusion in the Index will 
occur at the subsequent Index R eview.  
 
Merger/Acquisition  For Mergers and Acquisitions, the acquirer's post 
event weight will account for the proportionate 
amount of shares involved in deal consideration, while 
cash proceeds will be invested across the Index.  
 
If an existing Index const ituent is acquired by a non -
Index constituent, the existing constituent will be 
deleted from the Index and the acquiring non -
constituent will not be added to the Index.  
 
Changes in Security Characteristics  A security will continue to be an Index constituen t if 
there are changes in characteristics (country, sector, 
size segment, etc.) Reevaluation for continued 
inclusion in the Index will occur at the subsequent 
Index Review.  
 
Further detail and illustration regarding specific treatment of corporate events r elevant to this Index 
can be found in the MSCI Corporate Events Methodology book under the sections detailing the 
treatment of events in Capped Weighted and Non -Market Capitalization Weighted indexes.  
  
The MSCI Corporate Events methodology book is availa ble at:  https://www.msci.com/index -
methodology    
4 MSCI  ESG Research   
The Indexes are products of MSCI Inc. that utilize information such as company ratings and 
research produced and provided by MSCI ESG  Research LLC (MSCI ESG Research), a subsidiary of 
MSCI Inc. In particular, the Indexes use the following MSCI ESG Research products: MSCI ESG 
Ratings , MSCI ESG Controversies , MSCI ESG Business Involvement Screening Research, MSCI 
Climate Change Metrics an d MSCI Impact Solutions . MSCI Indexes are administered by MSCI 
Limited.   
4.1 MSCI ESG RATINGS  
MSCI ESG Ratings aim to measure entities' management of environmental, social and governance 
risks and opportunities. MSCI ESG Ratings use a weighted average key issu e calculation that is 
normalized by industry to arrive at an industry -adjusted ESG score (0 -10), which is then translated to 
a seven -point scale from 'AAA' to 'CCC', indicating how an entity manages relevant key issues 
relative to industry peers.  
The MSCI ESG Ratings methodology can be found at: https://www.msci.com/esg -and-climate -
methodologies . 
4.2 MSCI ESG CONTROVERSIES  
MSCI ESG Controversies provide assessments of controversies conc erning the potential negative 
environmental, social, and/or governance impact of company operations, products and services. The 
evaluation framework used in MSCI ESG Controversies is designed to be consistent with 
international norms represented by the UN Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO Declaration on 
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the UN Global Compact. MSCI ESG Controversies 
Score falls on a 0 -10 scale, with "0" being the most severe controversy.  
The MSCI ESG Controversies methodolog y can be found at: https://www.msci.com/esg -and-
climate -methodologies  
4.3 MSCI ESG  BUSINESS INVOLVEMENT SCREENING RESEARCH  
MSCI ESG Business Involvement Screening Research (BISR) aims to enable  institutional investors to 
manage environmental, social and governance (ESG) standards and restrictions reliably and 
efficiently.  
For more details on MSCI ESG Business Involvement Screening Research, please refer to 
http://www.msci.com/resources/factsheets/MSCI_ESG_BISR.pdf . 
4.4 MSCI CLIMATE CHANGE METRICS  
MSCI Climate Change Metrics provide climate data & tools to support institutional investors seeking 
to integrate climate risk & opportunities into their investment strategy and processes. This includes 
investors seeking to achieve a range of objectives, in cluding measuring and reporting on climate risk 
exposure, implementing low carbon and fossil fuel -free strategies, alignment with temperature 
pathways and factoring climate change research into their risk management processes, in particular 
through climate  scenario analysis for both transition and physical risks.  
The dataset spans across the four dimensions of a climate strategy: transition risks, green 
opportunities, physical risks and 1.5deg alignment.  
For more details on MSCI Climate Change Metrics, pleas e refer to https://www.msci.com/climate -
solutions . 
4.5 MSCI IMPACT SOLUTIONS: SUSTAINABLE IMPACT METRICS  
MSCI Impact Solutions Sustainable Impact Metrics is designed to identify companies that derive 
reven ue from products or services with positive impact on society and the environment. The 
Sustainable Impact Metrics are comprised of six Environmental Impact categories and seven Social 
Impact categories arranged by theme.  
MSCI Sustainable Impact Taxonomy  
 
Pillar Themes  Categories  
Environmental 
Impact  Climate Change  1. Alternative energy  
2. Energy efficiency  
3. Green building  
Natural capital  4. Sustainable water  
5. Pollution prevention  
6. Sustainable agriculture  
Social Impact  Basic needs  7. Nutrition  
8. Major Disease Treatment  
9. Sanitation  
10. Affordable Real Estate  
Empowerment  11. SME Finance  
12. Education  
13. Connectivity - Digital divide  
 
Under each of the actionable environmental and social impact themes, MSCI ESG Research has 
identified specific categories of products and services that it has determined companies can offer 
as potential solutions to environmental and social challenges.  
 
More detailed taxonomy for each category can be found in Section 2.4 of the MSCI ACWI 
Sustainable Impact Index Methodology available at https://www.msci.com/index -methodology .  
Appendix I: Values and Climate Change -based Criteria  
Companies whose activities meet the following business activities -based criteria, as evaluated by 
MSCI ESG Research, are excluded from the MSCI Select Sustainability Screened CTB Indexes.  
 
Values -based Exclusions Criteria : 
* Controversial Weapons  
o All companies with any tie to Controversial Weapons (cluster munitions, landmines, 
depleted uranium weapons, biological/chemical weapons, blinding lasers, non -
detectable fragments and incendiary weapons), as defined by the methodology of the 
MSCI Global Ex -Controversial Weapons Indexes available at 
https://www.msci.com/index -methodology    
 
* Nuclear Weapons  
o All companies that manufacture nuclear warheads and/or whole nuclear missiles  
o All companies that m anufacture components that were developed or are significantly 
modified for exclusive use in nuclear weapons (warheads and missiles)  
o All companies that manufacture or assemble delivery platforms that were developed or 
significantly modified for the exclus ive delivery of nuclear weapons  
o All companies that provide auxiliary services related to nuclear weapons  
o All companies that manufacture components that were not developed or not 
significantly modified for exclusive use in nuclear weapons (warheads and mi ssiles) but 
can be used in nuclear weapons  
 
o All companies that manufacture or assemble delivery platforms that were not developed 
or not significantly modified for the exclusive delivery of nuclear weapons but have the 
capability to deliver nuclear weapon s  
o All companies that manufacture components for nuclear -exclusive delivery platforms  
 
* Conventional Weapons  
o All companies deriving 5% or more revenue from the production of conventional 
weapons and components  
o All companies deriving 10% or more aggregate revenue from weapons systems, 
components, and support systems and services  
* Civilian Firearms  
o All companies classified as "Producer" of firearms and small arms ammunitions for 
civilian markets. It does not cover companies that cater to the military, govern ment, and 
law enforcement markets  
o All companies deriving 5% or more aggregate revenue from the production and 
distribution (wholesale or retail) of firearms or small arms ammunition intended for 
civilian use  
 
* Tobacco  
o All companies classified as a "Producer"  
o All companies deriving 5% or more aggregate revenue from the production, distribution, 
retail, supply and licensing of tobacco -related products  
* Genetically Modified Organisms (GMO)  
o All companies deriving 5% or more revenue from activities like g enetically modifying 
plants, such as seeds and crops, and other organisms intended for agricultural use or 
human consumption  
* Nuclear Power  
o All companies generating 5% or more of their total electricity from nuclear power in a 
given year  
o All companies that have 5% or more of installed capacity attributed to nuclear sources in 
a given fiscal year  
o All companies deriving 15% or more aggregate revenue from nuclear power activities  
 
Climate Change -based Exclusions Criteria:  
* Thermal Coal Mining  
o All companies deriving any revenue (either reported or estimated) from the mining of 
thermal coal (including lignite, bituminous, anthracite and steam coal) and its sale to 
external parties. It does not cover revenue from metallurgical coal; coal mined for 
internal power generation (e.g., in the case of vertically integrated power producers); 
intra -company sales of mined thermal coal; and revenue from coal trading  
* Unconventional Oil and Gas (including Arctic Oil and Gas) Extraction  
o All companies deriving 5% or more revenue (either reported or estimated) from 
unconventional oil and gas production. It covers revenue from oil sands, oil shale 
(kerogen -rich deposits), shale gas, shale oil, coal seam gas, coal bed methane, and Arctic 
onshore/offshore production. It d oes not cover all types of conventional oil and gas 
production including deep water, shallow water and other onshore/offshore  
* Thermal Coal -based Power Generation  
o All companies deriving 5% or more revenue (either reported or estimated) from thermal 
coal -based power generation  
  
Appendix I I: Calculation of Target Metrics  
Calculation of GHG Intensity relative to EVIC  
For Parent Index constituents where Scope 1+2+3 Emissions Intensity is not available, the 
average Scope 1+2+3 Emissions Intensity relative to EVIC of all the constituents of the MSCI 
ACWI in the same GICS(r)14 Industry Group in which the constituent belongs to is used.  
Security Level GHG Intensity relative to EVIC =  
 Scope  1+2+3 Carbon  Emissions * (1+EVIAF )
Enterprise  Value +Cash(in M$) 
 
Enterprise Value Inflation Adjustment Factor (EVIAF) = 
EVIAF = (Average (Enterprise  Value +Cash)
Previous  (Average (Enterprise  Value +Cash)) )-1 
 
Weighted  Average GHG Intensity relative to EVIC of the Parent Index =   
(Weig ht in Parent  Index * Security  Level  GHG  Intensity  relative  to EVIC ) 
 
Weighted Average GHG Intensity relative to EVIC of the Optimize d Index =   
(Index  Weig ht* Security  Level  GHG  Intensity  relative  to EVIC ) 
 
Calculation of GHG Intensity relative to Sales  
For Parent Index constituents where the Scope 1+2+3 Emissions Intensity is not available, 
the average Scope 1+2+3 Emissions Intensity relative to Sales of all the constituents of the 
MSCI ACWI in the same GICS Industry Group in which the constituent belong s to is used.  
Security Level GHG Intensity relative to Sales =  
 Scope  1+2+3 Carbon  Emissions
Sales  (in M$) 
 
Weighted Average GHG Intensity relative to Sales of the Parent Index =   
(Weig ht in Parent  Index * Security  Level  GHG  Intensity  relative  to Sales ) 
 
Weighted Average GHG Intensity relative to Sales of the Optimized Index =   
 
14 GICS, the Global Industry Classification Standard, jointly developed by MSCI Inc. and S&P Global  
(Index  Weig ht* Security  Level  GHG  Intensity  relative  to Sales ) 
 
Calculation of Average Decarbonization  
On average, the Indexes follow a 7% decarbonization trajectory since the Base Date. The 
Weighted Average GHG  Intensity relative to EVIC at the Base Date (W 1) is used to compute the 
target Weighted Av erage GHG  Intensity relative to EVIC at any given Semi -Annual Index Review 
(W t) as per the below formula:  
Wt=W1*  0.93(t-1)
2 
Where ' t' is the number of Semi -Annual Index Reviews since the Base Date.  
Thus, for the 3rd Semi -Annual Index Review since the Base Date (t=3), the target Weighted 
Average GHG  Intensity relative to EVIC will be W 1*0.93.  
 
Climate Impact Sectors  
NACE15 is the European Union's classification of economic activities. As per the EU Low Carbon 
Benchmarks Delegated Acts, stocks in the NACE Section codes A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, L are classified 
as "High Climate Impact" sectors and other stocks are classified 'Low Clim ate Impact' sectors. 
The GICS Sub -Industry code for each security is mapped to the corresponding "Climate Impact 
Sector" using a mapping16 between the NACE classes and GICS Sub -Industry, which is published 
by MSCI. This mapping is constructed in the follow ing steps:  
 
 
1. For each GICS Sub -Industry, the number of NACE classes which fall under the High 
Climate Impact Sector (say the number of classes is N H) and Low Climate Impact Sector 
(say the number of classes is N L) is identified  
2. If all the NACE classes for  a given GICS Sub -Industry are identified in the High Climate 
Impact Sector (N L = 0), then the GICS Sub -Industry is mapped to the High Climate Impact 
Sector. Conversely, if all the NACE classes for a given GICS Sub -Industry are identified in 
the Low Climat e Impact Sector (N H = 0) then the GICS Sub -Industry is mapped to the Low 
Climate Impact Sector  
3. In case a GICS Sub -Industry is mapped to some NACE classes in the High Climate 
Impact Sector and the others in the Low Climate Impact Sector, the GICS Industry is 
mapped to the Climate Impact Sector in the following manner:  
 
15 For furth er details regarding NACE, please refer to https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/statistics -
explained/index.php?title=NACE_background   
16 This mapping is available in the Handbook of Climate Transition Benchmarks, Paris -Aligned Benchmark and Benchmarks' ESG 
Disclo sures   
a. NH >= N L: If the number of NACE classes in the High Climate Impact Sector is at 
least equivalent to the number of NACE classes in the Low Climate Impact 
Sector, the GICS Sub -Industry is mappe d to the High Climate Impact Sector  
b. NH < N L: If the number of NACE classes in the High Climate Impact Sector is less 
than the number of NACE classes in the Low Climate Impact Sector, the GICS 
Sub-Industry is mapped to the Low Climate Impact Sector  
4. Using the GICS Sub -Industry to Climate Impact Sector mapping created in Step 4, and the 
security -level GICS Sub -Industry, each security in the Parent Index is classified in either 
High Climate Impact Sector or Low Climate Impact Sector.  
 
Calculation of Water Emissions Intensity relative to EVIC  
Security Level Water Emissions Intensity =  
Water  Emissions  (metric  tons )
Enterprise  Value +Cash(in M$) 
 
Weighted Average Water Emissions Intensity of the Parent Index =  
(Weig ht in Parent  Index i*Security  Level  Water  Emissions  Intensity )
 Weig ht in Parent  Index in
i=1 
 
Weighted Average Water Emissions Intensity of the Optimized Index =  
(Index  Weig hti*Security  Level  Water  Emission  Intensity )
 Index  Weig htin
i=1 
Where:  
i = index security with Water Emissions and EVIC a vailable.  
 
Calculation of Hazardous Water Intensity relative to EVIC  
Security Level Hazardous Waste Intensity =  
Hazardous  waste  (metric  tons )
Enterprise  Value +Cash(in M$) 
 
Weighted Average Hazardous Waste Intensit y of the Parent Index =  
(Weig ht in Parent  Index i*Security  Level  Hazardous  Waste  Intensity )
 Weig ht in Parent  Index in
i=1 
 
Weighted Average Hazardous Waste Intensity of the Optimized In dex =  
(Index  Weig hti*Security  Level  Hazrdous  Waste  Intensity )
 Index  Weig htin
i=1 
Where:  
* i = index security with all Hazardous Waste and EVIC available.  
 
Calculation of Weighted Average Sustainable Im pact Revenue  
Weighted Average Sustainable Impact Revenue of the Derived Index =  
(Index  Weig hti*Sustainable  Impact  Revenue )
 Index  Weig htin
i=1 
Where:  
i = index security with Sustainable Impact Revenue available.  
 
  
Appendix III: Barra Equity Model Used in The Optimization  
The Indexes currently use an optimization setup using the MSCI Barra Global Equity Model for Long -
Term Investors (GEMLTL).  
  
Appendix IV: New release of Barra(r) Equity Model or Barra(r) 
Optimizer  
A major new release of the relevant Barra Equity Model or Barra Optimizer may replace the former 
version within a suitable timeframe.  
  
Changes to this Document  
The following sections have been modified as of June , 2023:  
* Methodology book was upda ted to reflect the transition of the MSCI Global Investable 
Market Indexes (GIMI) to Quarterly Comprehensive Index Reviews.  
* All references to "Semi -Annual Index Reviews" and "Quarterly Index Reviews" of the MSCI 
GIMI were replaced with "Index Reviews".  
* ESG Research Section moved to the end (changed from Section 2 to Section 4)  
* Section 3.2 added to detail the monthly review of controversies and subsequent sections re -
numbered.  
  
MSCI.COM | PAGE 22 OF 22 (c) 202 3 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
 MSCI SELECT SUSTAINABILITY SCREENED CTB INDEXES 
METHODOLOGY  | MONTH YEAR  
 
 
Notice and disclaimer  
This document and all of  the information contained in it, including without limitation all text, data, graphs, charts (collectively, the "Information" ) is the property of 
MSCI Inc. or its subsidiaries (collectively, "MSCI"), or MSCI's licensors, direct or indirect suppliers or an y third party involved in making or compiling any Information 
(collectively, with MSCI, the "Information Providers") and is provided for informational purposes only.  The Information may not be modified, reverse -engineered, 
reproduced or redisseminated in whole or in part without prior written permission from MSCI. All rights in the Information are reserved by MSCI and/or its 
Information Providers.  
The Information may not be used to create derivative works or to verify or correct other data or information.   For example (but without limitation), the Information 
may not be used to create indexes, databases, risk models, analytics, software, or in connection with the issuing, offering, sponsoring, managing or marketing of 
any securities, portfolios, financial products or other investment vehicles utilizing or based on, linked to, tracking or otherwise derived from the Information or  any 
other MSCI data, information, products or services.   
The user of the Information assumes the entire risk of any use it may ma ke or permit to be made of the Information.  NONE OF THE INFORMATION PROVIDERS 
MAKES ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS WITH RESPECT TO THE INFORMATION (OR THE RESULTS TO BE OBTAINED BY THE 
USE THEREOF), AND TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTE D BY APPLICABLE LAW, EACH INFORMATION PROVIDER EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ALL IMPLIED 
WARRANTIES (INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ORIGINALITY, ACCURACY, TIMELINESS, NON -INFRINGEMENT, 
COMPLETENESS, MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICU LAR PURPOSE) WITH RESPECT TO ANY OF THE INFORMATION.  
Without limiting any of the foregoing and to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, in no event shall any Informatio n Provider have any liability regarding 
any of the Information for any direct,  indirect, special, punitive, consequential (including lost profits) or any other damages even if notified of the possibility of such 
damages. The foregoing shall not exclude or limit any liability that may not by applicable law be excluded or limited, inc luding without limitation (as applicable), 
any liability for death or personal injury to the extent that such injury results from the negligence or willful default of i tself, its servants, agents or sub -contractors.   
Information containing any historical information, data or analysis should not be taken as an indication or guarantee of any future performance, analysis, forecast  
or prediction.  Past performance does not guarantee future results.   
The Information should not be relied on and is not a substit ute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or 
clients when making investment and other business decisions.  All Information is impersonal and not tailored to the needs of any person, entity or group of 
persons.  
None of the Information constitutes an offer to sell (or a solicitation of an offer to buy), any security, financial product or other investment vehicle or any trading 
strategy.  
It is not possible to invest directly in an index.  Exposure to an as set class or trading strategy or other category represented by an index is only available through 
third party investable instruments (if any) based on that index.   MSCI does not issue, sponsor, endorse, market, offer, revi ew or otherwise express any opini on 
regarding any fund, ETF, derivative or other security, investment, financial product or trading strategy that is based on, li nked to or seeks to provide an investment 
return related to the performance of any MSCI index (collectively, "Index Linked Inves tments"). MSCI makes no assurance that any Index Linked Investments will 
accurately track index performance or provide positive investment returns.  MSCI Inc. is not an investment adviser or fiducia ry and MSCI makes no representation 
regarding the advisabi lity of investing in any Index Linked Investments.  
Index returns do not represent the results of actual trading of investible assets/securities. MSCI maintains and calculates i ndexes, but does not manage actual 
assets. The calculation of indexes and index returns may deviate from the stated methodology. Index returns do not reflect payment of any sales charges or fees 
an investor may pay to purchase the securities underlying the index or Index Linked Investments. The imposition of these fees  and charges wou ld cause the 
performance of an Index Linked Investment to be different than the MSCI index performance.  
The Information may contain back tested data.  Back -tested performance is not actual performance, but is hypothetical.  There are frequently material di fferences 
between back tested performance results and actual results subsequently achieved by any investment strategy.   
Constituents of MSCI equity indexes are listed companies, which are included in or excluded from the indexes according to the  applicati on of the relevant index 
methodologies. Accordingly, constituents in MSCI equity indexes may include MSCI Inc., clients of MSCI or suppliers to MSCI.  Inclusion of a security within an 
MSCI index is not a recommendation by MSCI to buy, sell, or hold such s ecurity, nor is it considered to be investment advice.  
Data and information produced by various affiliates of MSCI Inc., including MSCI ESG Research LLC and Barra LLC, may be used in calculating certain MSCI 
indexes.  More information can be found in the r elevant index methodologies on www.msci.com.  
MSCI receives compensation in connection with licensing its indexes to third parties.  MSCI Inc.'s revenue includes fees base d on assets in Index Linked 
Investments. Information can be found in MSCI Inc.'s comp any filings on the Investor Relations section of msci.com.  
MSCI ESG Research LLC is a Registered Investment Adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and a subsidiary of MSCI I nc.  Neither MSCI nor any of its 
products or services recommends, endors es, approves or otherwise expresses any opinion regarding any issuer, securities, financial products or instruments or 
trading strategies and MSCI's products or services are not a recommendation to make (or refrain from making) any kind of inve stment decis ion and may not be 
relied on as such, provided that applicable products or services from MSCI ESG Research may constitute investment advice. MSC I ESG Research materials, 
including materials utilized in any MSCI ESG Indexes or other products, have not been submitted to, nor received approval from, the United States Securities and 
Exchange Commission or any other regulatory body. MSCI ESG and climate ratings, research and data are produced by MSCI ESG Re search LLC, a subsidiary of 
MSCI Inc. MSCI ESG Indexes, Analytics and Real Estate are products of MSCI Inc. that utilize information from MSCI ESG Research LLC. MSCI Indexes are 
administered by MSCI Limited (UK).  
Please note that the issuers mentioned in MSCI ESG Research materials sometimes have commercial rel ationships with MSCI ESG Research and/or MSCI Inc. 
(collectively, "MSCI") and that these relationships create potential conflicts of interest.  In some cases, the issuers or th eir affiliates purchase research or other 
products or services from one or more MSCI affiliates. In other cases, MSCI ESG Research rates financial products such as mutual funds or ETFs that are 
managed by MSCI's clients or their affiliates, or are based on MSCI Inc. Indexes. In addition, constituents in MSCI Inc. equi ty indexes includ e companies that 
subscribe to MSCI products or services. In some cases, MSCI clients pay fees based in whole or part on the assets they manage . MSCI ESG Research has taken a 
number of steps to mitigate potential conflicts of interest and safeguard the inte grity and independence of its research and ratings. More information about these 
conflict mitigation measures is available in our Form ADV, available at https://adviserinfo.sec.gov/firm/summary/169222.   
Any use of or access to products, services or inform ation of MSCI requires a license from MSCI. MSCI, Barra, RiskMetrics, IPD and other MSCI brands and product 
names are the trademarks, service marks, or registered trademarks of MSCI or its subsidiaries in the United States and other jurisdictions.  The Glo bal Industry 
Classification Standard (GICS) was developed by and is the exclusive property of MSCI and S&P Global Market Intelligence.  "G lobal Industry Classification 
Standard (GICS)" is a service mark of MSCI and S&P Global Market Intelligence.  
MIFID2/MI FIR notice: MSCI ESG Research LLC does not distribute or act as an intermediary for financial instruments or structured depos its, nor does it deal on its 
own account, provide execution services for others or manage client accounts. No MSCI ESG Research pro duct or service supports, promotes or is intended to 
support or promote any such activity. MSCI ESG Research is an independent provider of ESG data.  
Privacy notice: For information about how MSCI collects and uses personal data, please refer to our Privac y Notice at https://www.msci.com/privacy -pledge . 