1 Introduct ion 
The MSCI Select ESG Screened Indexes ("the Indexes") are free float -adjusted market capitalization -
weighted indexes that exclude companies from underlying MSCI indexes ("Parent Indexes") based on 
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) criteria. The  following companies are excluded:   
* Companies that are associated with conventional, controversial, civilian, and nuclear weapons as 
well as tobacco, palm oil and arctic oil & gas or  
* Companies that are assigned an MSCI ESG Rating of 'CCC' or  
* Companies that derive revenues from thermal coal power and extraction of select fossil fuels  or 
* Companies that are involved in Red Flag ESG controversies, Orange Flag Land Use and Biodiversity 
controversies or Orange Flag Supply Chain Management controversies  or 
* Compan ies that are not in compliance with the United Nations Global Compact principles  
In addition, the Indexes target a minimum 30% reduction in carbon emission intensity relative to the 
underlying parent indexes ("Parent Indexes")1. 
  
 
1 The Indexes are governed by a set of methodology and policy documents ("Methodology Set"), including the present i ndex 
methodology document. The Methodology Set for the Indexes can be accessed from MSCI's webpage https://www.msci.com/index -
methodology in the section 'Search Methodology by Index Name or Index Code'.  
The Methodology Set includes a document 'ESG Factors in Methodology' that contains the list of environmental, social, and 
governance factors considered, and how they are applied in the methodology (e.g., selection, weighting or exclusion).  
2 Constructing the MSCI Select ESG Screened Index es  
Constructing the Indexes involves the following steps  
* Defining the Eligible Universe  
* Applying the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Intensity Reduction  
2.1 Eligible Universe  
The Eligible Universe for the Indexes  include s all the constituents of their respective Parent Index, as 
shown in Appendix II.  
2.2 Eligibility Criteria  
The Indexes use company ratings and research provided by MSCI ESG Research2 to determine 
eligibility for Index inclusion . 
ESG Ratings Eligibility   
The Indexes use MSCI ESG Ratings to identify companies that have demonstrated an ability to manage 
their ESG risks and opportunities. Companies with an MSCI ESG Rating of 'CCC' are excluded from 
the Indexes.  
ESG Exclusions  
The Indexes use MSCI ESG Business In volvement Screening Research to identify companies that are 
involved in the following business activities. Companies that meet the business involvement criteria 
are excluded from the Indexes . 
* Conventional Weapons  
* Controversial Weapons  
* Nuclear Weapons  
* Civilian Firearms  
* Tobacco  
* Fossil Fuel Extraction  
* Thermal Coal Power  
* Arctic Oil & Gas  
* Palm Oil  
 
 
2 See section 4 for further information regarding ESG and climate dat a used in the Indexes that MSCI Limited sources from MSCI ESG 
Research LLC, a separate subsidiary of MSCI Inc. MSCI ESG Research is solely responsible for the creation, determination and 
management of such data. MSCI Limited is the benchmark administrator for the MSCI indexes.  
In addition to the above, companies are also excluded from the Indexes if they exhibit any of the 
following characteristics:  
 
* Companies assessed as having involv ement in ESG controversies that are classified as Red Flags 
(MSCI ESG Controversy Score of 0). A Red Flag indicates an ongoing Very Severe ESG controversy 
implicating a company directly through its actions, products, or operations . 
* Companies assessed as ha ving involvement in Land Use and Biodiversity controversies that are 
classified as Orange Flags (MSCI ESG Controversies: Environment - Land Use and Biodiversity 
Score of 1). An Orange Flag indicates an ongoing Severe ESG controversy implicating a company 
directly, or a Very Severe ESG controversy that is either partially resolved or indirectly attributed to 
the company's actions, products, or operations . 
* Companies assessed as having involvement in Supply Chain Management controversies that are 
classified as Orange Flags (MSCI ESG Controversies: Environment - Supply Chain Management 
Score of 1). An Orange Flag indicates an ongoing Severe ESG controversy implicating a company 
directly, or a Very Severe ESG controversy that is either partially reso lved or indirectly attributed to 
the company's actions, products, or operations . 
* Missing MSCI ESG Controversies Score - Companies not assessed by MSCI ESG Research on 
MSCI ESG Controversies . 
* Failure to comply with the United Nations Global Compact Principl es (UN Global Compact 
Alignment value of "Fail").  
* Please refer to Appendix I for details on these criteria.  
2.3 Weighting  Scheme  
The remaining securities, after the exclusions based on section 2.2, are weighted in proportion of their 
free float -adjusted market capitalization.  
Additionally, security weights are adjusted to specific requirements of neutrality and active exposure 
relative to sector/country/region categories as detailed in Appendix III.  The applicable region 
neutrality and active exposure co nstraints, along with the GHG -Intensity reduction described in the 
next section (2.4) , are applied through an iterative process until all restrictions are met simultaneously.  
2.4 GHG Intensity Reduction    
After the weighting scheme is applied as per section 2. 3, the GHG intensity relative to the Parent Index 
is assessed. If the GHG intensity3 is not at least 30% lower than the Parent Index , additional securities 
are excluded from the Eligible Universe to achieve a reduction of 30% GHG intensity relative to the 
Parent Index. The following iterative process is applied : 
1. Securities are ranked in descending order of GHG intensity.  
2. The security with the highest GHG intensity is excluded and the resulting Index is compared 
to the Parent Index, to deter mine if a 30% reduction in GHG intensity has been achieved.  
 
3 Please refer to Appendix I V for details of the calculation of GHG Intensity.  
3. If the reduction has been achieved, no further securities are excluded. If the reduction has not 
been achieved, further securities are excluded as per steps 1 and 2 until the 30% reduction is 
achieved . 
  
3 Maintaining the MSCI Select ESG Screened Indexes  
3.1 Quarterly Index Reviews  
The Indexes are reviewed on a quarterly basis to coincide with the regular Index Reviews of the MSCI 
Global Investable Market Indexes. The changes are implemented as of the close of the last business 
day of February, May, August and November.  
In general, MSCI uses MSCI ESG Research data4 (including MSCI ESG Ratings, MSCI ESG 
Controversies Scores , MSCI Business Involvement Screening Research  and MSCI Climate Change 
Metrics ) as of the end of the month preceding the Index Reviews for the rebalancing of the I ndex. For 
some securities, such data may not be published by MSCI ESG Research by the end of the month 
preceding the Index Review. For such securities, MSCI will use ESG data published after the end of 
month, when available, for the rebalancing of the Inde x.  
The pro forma Indexes are in general announced nine business days before the effective date.  
3.2 Monthly Review of Controversies  
Index constituents are reviewed on a monthly basis for the involvement in ESG controversies and for 
compliance with the United  Nations Global Compact Principles. Existing constituents will be deleted 
if they face controversies as defined as defined by MSCI ESG Controversy Score of 0 ('Red flag' 
companies), or if they fail to comply with the UN Global Compact Principles.  
MSCI uses  MSCI ESG Controversies data as of the end of the month preceding the review (e.g., end of 
June data for the end of July monthly review). For some securities, such data may not be published 
by MSCI ESG Research by the end of the month preceding the review.  For such securities, MSCI will 
use ESG data published after the end of month, when available, for the monthly review of the Index.  
The pro forma Indexes are generally announced nine business days before the first business day of 
the month.  
3.3 Ongoing Event -Related Maintenance    
The following section briefly describes the treatment of common corporate events within the Indexes.  
No new securities will be added (except where noted below) to the Indexes between Index Reviews. 
For cases where additions are noted  below, securities will be added to the Index only if added to the 
Parent Index.  
Parent Index deletions will be reflected simultaneously.  
There are no deletions from the Indexes between Index Reviews on account of a security becoming 
ineligible because of  a change in business involvement, MSCI ESG Rating and/or failure to comply 
with the UN Global Compact Principles and/or decrease in MSCI ESG Controversies Score . 
 
  
 
4 See section 4 for details of data sourced from MSCI ESG Research used in the Indexes.  
EVENT TYPE      EVENT DETAILS    
 
New additions to the Parent Index  A new security added to the Parent Index (such as IPO 
and other early inclusions), will not be added to the 
Index.   
 
Spin -Offs  All securities created as a result of the spin -off of an 
existing Index constituent will not be added to the 
Indexes  at the time of event implementation. 
Reevaluation for addition in the Indexes will occur at 
the subsequent Index Review.  
 
Merger/Acquisition  If an existing Index constituent is acquired by a non -
Index constituent, the existing constituent will be 
deleted from the Inde x and the acquiring non -
constituent will not be added to the Index.  
 
Changes in Security Characteristics  A security will continue to be an Index constituent if 
there are changes in characteristics (country, sector, 
size segment, etc.) Reevaluation for cont inued 
inclusion in the Index will occur at the subsequent 
Index Review.  
 
Further detail and illustration regarding specific treatment of corporate events relevant to this Index 
can be found in the MSCI Corporate Events Methodology book.  
The MSCI Corporate  Events methodology book is available at: https://www.msci.com/index -
methodology . 
  
4 MSCI ESG Research  
The Indexes are products of MSCI Inc. that utilize information such as company ratings and researc h 
produced and provided by MSCI ESG Research LLC (MSCI ESG Research), a subsidiary of MSCI Inc. In 
particular, the  Indexes use the following MSCI ESG Research products:  MSCI ESG Controversies , MSCI  
ESG Business Involvement Screening Research and MSCI Clim ate Change Metrics . MSCI Indexes are 
administered by MSCI Limited.  
4.1 MSCI ESG Ratings  
MSCI ESG Ratings aim to measure entities' management of environmental, social and governance 
risks and opportunities. MSCI ESG Ratings use a weighted average key issue calculation that is 
normalized by industry to arrive at an industry -adjusted ESG score ( 0-10), which is then translated to 
a seven -point scale from 'AAA' to 'CCC', indicating how an entity manages relevant key issues relative 
to industry peers.  
The MSCI ESG Ratings methodology can be found at: https://www.msci.com/esg -and-climate -
methodologies . 
4.2 MSCI ESG Controversies  
MSCI ESG Controversies provide assessments of controversies concerning the potential negative 
environmental, social, and/or governance impact of company operations, products and services. The 
evaluation framework used in MSCI ESG Controversies is designed to be consistent with international 
norms represented by the UN Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental 
Principles and Rights at Work, and the UN Global Compact. MSCI ESG Controversies Score falls on a 
0-10 scale, with "0" being the  most severe controversy.  
The MSCI ESG Controversies methodology can be found at: https://www.msci.com/esg -and-climate -
methodologies . 
4.3 MSCI ESG Business Involvement Screening Research  
MSCI ESG Business Involvement Screening Research (BISR) aims to enable institutional investors to 
manage environmental, social and governance (ESG) standards and restrictions reliably and 
efficiently.  
For more details on MSCI ESG Business Involvement Screening Research, please refer to 
http://www.msci.com/resources/factsheets/MSCI_ESG_BISR.pdf . 
4.4 MSCI Climate Change Metrics  
MSCI Climate Change Metrics provides climate data & tools to suppor t institutional investors seeking 
to integrate climate risk & opportunities into their investment strategy and processes. This includes 
investors seeking to achieve a range of objectives, including measuring and reporting on climate risk 
exposure, implemen ting low carbon and fossil fuel -free strategies, alignment with temperature 
pathways and factoring climate change research into their risk management processes, in particular 
through climate scenario analysis for both transition and physical risks.  
The dat aset spans across the four dimensions of a climate strategy: transition risks, green 
opportunities, physical risks and 1.5deg alignment.  
For more details on MSCI Climate Change Metrics, please refer to https://www.msci.com/climate -
change -solutions . 
  
Appendix I: ESG Exclusions Criteria  
MSCI ESG Research has developed a framework designed to define significant involvement in 
controversial activities. According to this framework, there are four level s of restrictiveness : Most 
Restrictive, Highly Restrictive, Moderately Restrictive  and Least Restrictive . 
Each controversial activity screened by the MSCI ESG Screened Indexes ( except Fossil Fuel Extraction, 
Thermal Coal Power, Palm Oil, Arctic Oil & Gas and Global Norms ) is assigned to one of these 
restrictiveness  levels : 
 
"Most Restrictive" screen applied  
* Controversial Weapons  
- All companies with any tie to Controversial Weapons (cluster munitions, landmines, 
depleted uranium weapons, biological/chemi cal weapons, blinding lasers, non -
detectable fragments and incendiary weapons), as defined by the methodology of the 
MSCI Ex -Controversial Weapons Indexes  available at 
https://www .msci.com/i ndex/methodology/latest/XCW  
 
"Highly Restrictive" screen applied  
* Nuclear Weapons  
- All companies that manufacture nuclear warheads and/or whole nuclear missiles.  
- All companies that manufacture components that were developed or are significantly 
modified for exclusive use in nuclear weapons (warheads and missiles).  
- All companies that manufacture or assemble delivery platforms that were developed 
or significantly modified for the exclusive delivery of nuclear weapons.  
- All companies that provide aux iliary services related to nuclear weapons.  
- All companies that manufacture components that were not developed or not 
significantly modified for exclusive use in nuclear weapons (warheads and missiles) 
but can be used in nuclear weapons.  
- All companies that manufacture or assemble delivery platforms that were not 
developed or not significantly modified for the exclusive delivery of nuclear weapons 
but have the capability to deliver nuclear weapons.  
- All companies that manufacture components for nuclear -exclusi ve delivery platforms.  
* Civilian Firearms  
- All companies classified as "Producer" of firearms and small arms ammunitions for 
civilian markets. It does not include companies that cater to the military, government, 
and law enforcement markets.  
- All companies de riving 5% or more aggregate revenue from the production and 
distribution (wholesale or retail) of firearms or small arms ammunition intended for 
civilian use.  
* Conventional Weapons  
- All companies deriving 5% or more revenue from the production of conventiona l 
weapons and components . 
- All companies deriving 10% or more aggregate revenue from weapons systems, 
components, and support systems and services . 
* Tobacco  
- All companies classified as a "Producer".  
- All companies deriving 5% or more aggregate revenue from the production, 
distribution, retail, supply and licensing of tobacco -related products.  
 
No specific restrictiveness level applied  
* Fossil Fuel Extraction  
 All companies deriving 5% or more aggregate revenue (either reported or estimated) from 
thermal coal mining and unconventional oil and gas extraction.  
* Thermal Coal Mining : Revenue from the mining of thermal coal (including lignite, 
bituminous, anthracite and steam coal) and its sale to external parties. It does not cover 
revenue from metallurgical coal; coal mined for internal power generation (e.g. in the case 
of vertically integrated power producers); intra -company sales of mined thermal coal;  and 
revenue from coal trading  
* Unconventional Oil & Gas Extraction:  Revenue from oil sands, oil shale (kerogen -rich 
deposits), shale gas, shale oil, coal seam gas, and coal bed methane. It does not cover  all 
types of conventional oil and gas production inc luding Arctic onshore/offshore, deep  
water, shallow water and other onshore/offshore.  
* Thermal Coal Power  
 All companies deriving 5% or more revenue (either reported or estimated) from thermal coal -
based power generation . 
* Arctic Oil & Gas  
 All companies deriv ing 5% or more revenue from arctic oil and arctic gas production. The 
definition of Arctic is geographical and includes production activities north of the 66.5 latitude. 
This includes offshore or onshore oil and gas production.  
* Palm Oil  
 All companies deriv ing 5% or more aggregate revenue from the production of Palm Oil.  
* Global Norms - United Nations Global Compact Compliance  
 All companies that fail to comply with the United Nations Global Compact principles . 
Appendix II: Eligible Universe  
The Eligible Unive rse for the Indexes includes all the constituents of their respective MSCI Parent 
Index, as shown below . 
Index Name  Parent Index  
MSCI World Select ESG Screened Index  MSCI World  
MSCI USA Select ESG Screened Index  MSCI USA  
MSCI Japan Select ESG Screened Index  MSCI Japan  
MSCI EM Select ESG Screened Index  MSCI EM  
MSCI Europe Select ESG Screened Index  MSCI Europe  
MSCI EMU Select ESG Screened Index  MSCI EMU  
MSCI ACWI Select ESG Screened Index  MSCI ACWI  
MSCI EM Asia Select ESG Screened Index  MSCI EM Asia  
MSCI Pacific ex Japan Select ESG Screened 
Index  MSCI Pacific ex Japan  
MSCI Canada Select ESG Screened Index  MSCI Canada  
MSCI China A Inclusion Select ESG Screened 
Index  MSCI China A Inclusion  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix III: Additional Weighting Scheme  
After the exclusions based on section 2.2 and the weighting scheme applied based on section 2.3, the 
weights for the Indexes are updated as specified below . 
Region Neutrality5: The weight of each region in the Indexes i s equated with the weight of that region 
in the corresponding Parent Index. This is done by normalizing the weights of the constituents within 
each region to reflect the effective Parent Index region weight.  
Sector Active Exposure:  The Indexes weights are updated to control the sector weights from deviating 
at most a fixed percentage relative to the sector weights of the corresponding Parent Index.  
Country Active Exposure:  The Indexes weights are updated to control the country weights from 
deviating at mos t a fixed percentage relative to the country weights of the corresponding Parent Index.  
Index Name  Region Neutrality  Sector Active 
Exposure 
Absolute Limit  Country Active 
Exposure 
Absolute Limit  Cap on Maximum 
Country Weight  
MSCI World 
Select ESG 
Screened Index  Yes 1% No No 
MSCI USA Select 
ESG Screened 
Index  No 5% No No 
MSCI Japan 
Select ESG 
Screened Index  No 1% No No 
MSCI EM Select 
ESG Screened 
Index  No No 5% No 
MSCI Europe 
Select ESG 
Screened Index  No 1% No No 
MSCI EMU Select 
ESG Screened 
Index  No 1% No No 
MSCI ACWI 
Select ESG 
Screened Index  Yes Within Developed 
Markets (DM):  
In North America: 
5% Within Emerging 
Markets (EM): 1%  
 
No country limit 
is applied to No 
 
5 Regions currently identified are Americas, Europe & Middle East and Pacific. In addition, the Emerging Markets (EM) region is  used 
in the MSCI ACWI Select ESG Screened Index . 
Index Name  Region Neutrality  Sector Active 
Exposure 
Absolute Limit  Country Active 
Exposure 
Absolute Limit  Cap on Maximum 
Country Weight  
In rest of 
countries: 1%  
 
No sector limit is 
applied to 
Emerging 
Markets (EM)  Developed 
Markets (DM)  
MSCI EM Asia 
Select ESG 
Screened Index  No No 5% Maximum weight 
for India capped 
at 18%  
MSCI Pacific ex 
Japan Select ESG 
Screened Index  No 1% No No 
MSCI Canada 
Select ESG 
Screened Index  No 1% No No 
MSCI China A 
Inclusion Select 
ESG Screened 
Index  No 1% No No 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix IV: Calculation of GHG Intensity  
The security level and Index level GHG intensity are calculated as per below formula:  
Security  Level  GHG  Intensity =Carbon  Emissions  Scope  1+2+3
Enterprise  Value +Cash (in M$) 
Index  Level  GHG  Intensity
=sum  of (Constituent  weig ht*Security  Level  GHG  Intensity )
sum  of constituent  weig ht with Carbon  emissions  and  EVIC  data  available 
 
Securities with missing Carbon Emissions and/or Enterprise Value + Cash are not considered for 
potential exclusion under section 2.4. 
  
Appendix V: Changes to this Document  
First version reviewed and published in April 2021 .  
 
The following modifications are effective from May 2021 : 
Section 1: Introduction  
* Updated indexes list: MSCI ACWI Select ESG Screened I ndex added  
Appendix II : Eligible Universe  
* Updated Eligible Universe table  
Appendix II I: Additional Weighting Scheme  
* Updated Weighting Scheme table  
 
The following modifications are effective from August 2021 : 
Appendix I : ESG Exclusion Criteria  
* Updated criteria for Conventional Weapons  
 
The following modifications are effective from November 2021 : 
Section 1: Introduction  
* Updated indexes list: MSCI EM Asia Select ESG Screened Index and MSCI Pacific ex 
Japan Select ESG Screened Index added  
Appendix  II: Eligible Universe  
* Updated Eligible Universe table  
Appendix II I: Additional Weighting Scheme  
* Updated Weighting Scheme table  
 
The following modifications are effective from April 2022 : 
Section 1: Introduction  
* Updated indexes list: MSCI Canada Select ESG  Screened Index and MSCI China A 
Inclusion Select ESG Screened Index added  
Appendix II : Eligible Universe  
* Updated Eligible Universe table  
Appendix II I: Additional Weighting Scheme  
Updated Weighting Scheme table  
 
The following modifications are effective from May 2022 : 
Section 3.2: ESG Exclusions  
* Added 'Fossil Fuel Extraction' and 'Thermal Coal Power'  
* Removed 'Thermal Coal' and 'Oil Sands'  
Section 4.2: Ongoing Event -Related Maintenance  
* Clarified the maintenance rules  
Appendix I: ESG Exclusions Criteria  
* Added screens for 'Fossil Fuel Extraction' and 'Thermal Coal Power'  
* Removed screens for 'Thermal Coal' and 'Oil Sands'  
* Added note on treatment for unrated securities or securities with missing coverage  
 
The following modifications are e ffective from August 2022 : 
Section 1: Introduction  
* Added exclusion criteria for MSCI ESG Controversies Score of zero  
Section 3.2.2: ESG Exclusions  
Added exclusion criteria for MSCI ESG Controversies Score of zero  
 
The following modifications are effective from November 2022 : 
Appendix III : Additional Weighting Scheme  
* Updated Weighting Scheme table  
 
The following modifications are effective from February 2023 : 
Section 3.1: Eligible Universe  
* Added screens for 'Arctic Oil & Gas' and 'Palm Oil'  
* Added references to 'Environment - Land Use & Biodiversity Score' and 'Environment 
- Supply Chain Management Score'  
Section 3.4: GHG Intensity Reduction  
* New Section  
Section 4.2: Monthly Review of Controversies  
* New Section  
Appendix I: ESG Exclusions Criteria  
* Added screens for 'Palm Oil' and 'Arctic Oil & Gas'  
Appendix I V: Calculation of GHG Intensity  
* New Appendix  
Methodology book was updated to reflect the transition of the MSCI Global Investable Market 
Indexes (GIMI) to Quarterly Comprehensive Index Reviews.  
All references to "Semi -Annual Index Reviews" and "Quarterly Index Reviews" of the MSCI GIMI were 
replaced with "Index Reviews".  
 
The following modifications are effective from June  2023 : 
Section 1: Introduction  
* Added footnote on Methodology Set  
Section 2.2: Eligibility Criteria  
* Clarified the exclusion criteria for companies involved in ESG Controversies  
Section 2.3: Weighting Scheme  
* Details added to the index weighting scheme process  
Section 4: MSCI ESG Research  
* Moved that section after the Section 3 (Maintaining the MSCI ESG Screened Indexes)  
* Updated the descriptions of MSCI ESG Research products  
 
 
 
  